## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 20 August 2025

Attending (1st Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Olav Vahtras, KTH, Plotting and programming Python
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine for SocSci
- Daniel Cummins, Imperial College London, MATLAB SWC
- Rob Davey (he/him), The Carpentries
- Hugo Gruson (he/him), EMBL, R ecology lesson & R Novice Inflammation (SW Carpentry)

Attending (2nd Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- jamie jamison, UCLA.  Sorry missing this month's meeting.  I'll read the notes later.
- Craig Gross (he/him), Michigan State University, SWC R for Reproducible Scientific Analysis
- Shelby Watson (she/her) University of Mississippi, LC Wikidata
- Irene Ramos (she/her), OLS, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Kendra Oudyk (she/her). McGill University. LC Python
- Marijane White (she/they), Oregon Health & Science University, dc-openrefine-socialsci
- Jose Nino Muriel, he/him, University of California - Santa Barbara, dc-ecology-python and dc-socsci-spreadsheets
- Kristi Liu, she/her, University of California, Santa Barbara, dc-geospatial-intro 

### Agenda

#### 1. Introductions

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team

* New Workbench release (more later about the new Glosario support)
    * See summaries of changes:
        * https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/releases/tag/0.17.0
        * https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/releases/tag/0.17.1
        * https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/releases/tag/1.0.7
* LC and SWC are looking for new Lesson Program Governors
    * [Blog post with more info](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/07/calling-for-new-lesson-program-governors/)
    * Please consider volunteering and/or pass on the info to others in the community who would be a good fit
* The authors of _Building Better Research Software_ are [calling for people to run beta pilots and give them feedback on the lesson](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/08/building-better-beta-pilots/)
    * Hoping to see this adopted as new official SWC workshop in the next ~1 year

#### 3. General Information

#### 4. Special discussion: Embedding Glosario in lessons (with Rob Davey)

- What is glosario?
    - a multi-lingual glossary of data science terms. 
    - <https://glosario.carpentries.org>
    - Many languages represented, annotated on landing page with the number of terms that are defined in English but not yet in the relevant language.
    - The Carpentries received support from the Mellon Foundation to develop Glosario further and integrate it with the Workbench
- What does Glosario contain?
    - On Glosario site, terms are provided with definition, list of related terms, and links to definitions available in other languages
- How to activate the Glosario integration to the Workbench
    - add `glosario: true` to your lesson's `config.yaml` to start using the Glosario integration.
- How to link terms in your lesson to Glosario
    - when integration has been activated, add Markdown link to glosario definition from a relevant term when it first appears in the lesson (Toby has Q about this).
    - OR add `{{ glosario.term_slug }}` after a term when it first appears in the lesson, e.g. `{{ glosario.shell }}` or `{{ glosario.gui }}`.
        - these "template-style" links will insert a superscript link to the term in that location in the lesson content
        - these definitions are presented in the language of the lesson (based on the `lang` field of the `config.yaml`), or in English as a fallback if not.
- Why bother?
    - linked terms are aggregated automatically into the _Reference_ page of the lesson site
- What's next?
    - working on support for integration for offline lesson builds
    - support for Glosario links not available yet in non-episode pages

##### Q&A + feedback

1. Superscript can be quite long, e.g. command line interface. Maybe an icon or "G" or something instead?
    * Afterthought from Ben: also about accessibility – a link should be big enough to be clicked/tapped and links with different targets should be different and descriptive (i.e., let's not create a "click here" situation for Glosario links)
3. Or numeric superscripts with footnotes
    * footnotes could perhaps also be `<aside>`s rendered to the side or between paragraphs, either by default or by clicking the term
5. What are the eligibility criteria for a term to be included in Glosario?
    * Contributions are reviewed by the community. No strict criteria, expect to be quite permissive about what we include. Do really want to encourage community members who are native speakers in languages other than english to submit translations and volunteer as an editor for that language, so they can review other peoples' contributions.
    * also related to ongoing internationalisation efforts in CrowdIn. We would love to see these efforts and Glosario more closely related.
6. Could we have checks in pegboard for e.g. whether the definition is being linked after the first time the term is mentioned, and a helper function or something that would list terms that appear in the lesson that have definitions in Glosario.
    * Could result in many links in the earlier episodes.
    * Output and warning could be large for large lessons. Doing it well might require some natural language processing, which would be very difficult, to avoid false positives. Would slow down lesson builds a lot.
    * Ben: could be a separate script, rather than new feature of the Workbench/included in the build process
7. Consider accessibility of links added. Ben has read that hover-over pop-ups are better for a11y than title elements of links.
    * there may be an ARIA tag that we could use as well
    * Ben: DFN tag in HTML may be better

#### 5. Other conversation
Great conversation about the varied use of SWC/LC lesson materials in Library workshops, but Erin didn't capture it in notes. Sorry!

### For next meeting

- Wednesday, 17 September, 2025
