## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 18 June 2025

Attending (1st Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Michel M, Nzikou, UWA, astronomy-python
- Kellie Templeman, she/her, University of Georgia, Databases and SQL (software carpentry)
- Nathaniel Porter, Virginia Tech, Instructor Training and Maintainer Community Lead
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Alex Ball (he/him), U of Bath, lc-git
- Janetta Steyn, Newcastle 

Attending (2nd Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, The Workbench
-  Rafia Mirza (she/her), SMU - LC-Computational Thinking
- Jose Niño Muriel (he/him), University of California, Santa Barbara, dc-socialsci-spreadsheets & dc-socialsci-python
- Nil Mu (he/him), Arizona State University, dc-cloud-genomics
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), lc-bash

### Agenda

#### 1. Introductions

- Icebreaker: **You have issues!** 
    - *What is one barrier that made it harder for you to get started with computing/data/libraries/coding? It can be practical, technical, experience of other people, self-talk, or anything.*
    - different environments (OS, etc)
    - self-confidence (wet lab STEM researcher originally)
    - no obvious connections between programming and domain of research
    - lack of structured introduction to programming (DIY learning as part of PhD)
    - getting access to right kind of infrastructure to develop skills (i.e. didn't have server to try html/etc forms)
    - not assume everyone has same knowledge/background

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team

- Recent blogs of interest!
    - [New Maintainers](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/06/welcome-maintainers-2025/)
    - [Annual Report](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/05/publication-of-the-carpentries-2024-annual-report/)
- Github permissions and organizational memberships have been updated
    - This shouldn't change your permissions on anything you're currently maintaining
    - If you got a notice you didn't expect or run into issues, contact Nathaniel, Erin, or Toby
- Follow-up: what to do if you have feedback on new setup/installation instructions
    - Coming soon
    - There is [a pull request pending](https://github.com/carpentries/workshop-template/pull/872) to update the central Python instructions. Expected to merge in the next week-ish.
    - We especially appreciate feedback based on workshops, as to what works well and what can be a challenge (since this provides a larger and more diverse user base)
- Workbench documentation updates
    - We have a plan for updating and reorganising the documentation of The Carpentries Workbench. Expect to see an updated version of the https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs towards the end of the year.
- Containerised lesson build workflows
    - the "Dockerised" version of the lesson build workflows is being tested on a few official lessons. So far things are working very well but the Technology Team and Curriculum Team want to observe for a while longer and make sure that all runs smoothly before rolling this version of the workflows to all lessons. Maintainers should not have to do anything differently but will hopefully see less their lesson builds break less often.
    - If you are interested in what that Dockerised workflow looks like, take a look here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-inflammation/actions/runs/15707382209

#### 3. General Information

- (Add items of interest to the maintainer community here)
- Question: when there's a lag in feedback when can we merge our own pull request?
    - An FAQ topic in the Maintainer handbook on this question (see also the following question): <https://docs.carpentries.org/handbooks/maintainers.html#when-should-i-merge-my-own-pull-request>
- Question: Could you provide some examples of Learner Profiles? My lesson doesn't currently have one.
    - This feature has been underused, and there's not as much discussion in the official materials about what learner profiles are and how to develop them
    - There is some related content in the [CLDT](https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-development-training/audience.html#target-audience)
    - A relevant section in Greg Wilson's _Teaching Tech Together_: <https://teachtogether.tech/en/index.html#s:process-personas>
    - Currently automatically part of learner view
    - and the source HTML of the page that used to describe learner personas for Software Carpentry: https://github.com/swcarpentry/website-archive/blob/df41843fe1d55100112cc81a6cbe83032ffef0a8/pages/audience.html
- Discussion of Windows install issues, troubleshooting, and OneDrive navigation. 

#### 4. Special discussion (if time)

- Topic: BYO co-working issues
    - _Come prepared (if you have a chance) with one or more issues you'd like to work on_
    - _If it's something you'd like advice or help on, you can ask the group_
    - _You can also just work on it (or help someone else who phones a friend)_
- **Selected usses/PRs addressed today**
    - [LC Git: Optional challenge needs expanding](https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/lc-git/issues/132)
    - [IT update PR merged](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1862)
    - [IT typos merged](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1860)
    - [Merge pull request needed](https://github.com/datacarpentry/astronomy-python/pull/246)
    - 

#### 5. Other conversation

- Question: is there guidance on how to specify size of figures in lessons?
    - No official style guidance
    - Preference is not to use pixels but percents
    - Percent adjusts displayed size of image to a proportion of the `div` (e.g. the main column of the lesson page) onscreen and is best for responsive design principles (adapting to different resolutions and device types)
- Question came up in teaching Git yesterday
    - Is it not possible to use real-life (code) examples rather than recipes/etc (though that was an improvement)?
        - Also note that guacamole is hard to spell/type repeatedly and kind of culturally specific
- 

### For next meeting

- Wednesday, 16 July, 2025
- Topic ideas?
    - add your ideas here!
