## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 21 May 2025

Attending (1st Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Kellie Templeman, she/her, University of Georgia, SQL- Software Carpentries
- Toan Phung, he/him, University of Dundee, Python Novice Inflammation
- Kevin French, he/him, GMILCS Inc., Library Carpentry - Introduction to Regular Expressions
- Novica Nakov, he/him, Norwegian Veterinary Institute, Software Carpentry SQL 
- Pariksheet Nanda, he/him, University of Pittsburgh, SWC shell novice (new maintainer)
- Nicky Garland, he/him, University of York, Intro to R - Library Carpentry
- Toby Hodges, he/him, The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Junaid Mir, he/him, HPC.NRW / University of Duisburg-Essen, Programming with Python
- Alex Ball, he/him, University of Bath, Library Carpentry Intro to Git
- Daniel Cummins, he/him, Imperial College London, MATLAB SWC
- Nathaniel Porter, he/him, Virginia Tech, Instructor Training and Maintainer Community Lead
- Cooper Kimball-Rhines, he/him, UMass Boston, R Intro to Geospatial
- Katie O'Mahony, she/they, Cork Ireland, Programming with R lesson

Attending (2nd Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Erin Becker, she/her, The Carpentries, Workbench
- Jamie Jamison, she/her, lc-shell
- Shelby Watson, she/her, University of Mississippi, LC Wikidata
- Craig Gross, he/him, Michigan State University, SWC - R for Reproducible Scientific Analysis
- Rafia Mirza, she/her, SMU, LC Computational Thinking
- Marijane White, she/they, Oregon Health & Science University, openrefine-socialsci
- Jose Niño Muriel, he/him, University of California - Santa Barbara, DC Social Science spreadsheets 
-Aida Miró-Herrans, she/ella, University of Florida, Data Wrangling and Processing for Genomics
- Nathaniel Porter he/him, Virginia Tech, Instructor Training
- Gandhimathi (Mathi) Padmanaban, (she/her), University of Michigan, Library Carpentries-Introduction to Computational Thinking

### Minutes

#### 1. Introductions
- Icebreaker: How did you first learn about the Carpentries?
    - Took workshop: Xxx
    - Asked/encouraged to be instructor or helper: XXXxxxx
    - Stumbled on it online: Xx
    - Something else: x
        - Learned about it at the Boston Python meetup group.
        - I was asked to be a helper for workshop when the instructors found they had more people sign up than they had expected.
        - Conference presentations and (meta-)workshops
        - Heard about Carpentries during a job interview

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team
- Maintainer Onboarding
    - Maintainers of lessons gaining new Maintainers should have all received an email introducing them to the current Maintainers. Please introduce yourselves to them and we recommend that you also try to find a time when you can meet at least once, e.g. to discuss how you want to coordinate your maintenance activities.
    - We welcomed 37 new Maintainers in total.
- Workbench
    - Update released including automatic or manual dark mode image support
        - Watch for images that may not render perfectly in dark mode or pull requests from users about dark mode
    - Moving into final stages of development for Workbench Docker workflows. Look out for requests to test out the new build workflows before we roll it out across all lessons.
- Generative AI & installation instructions updates
    - Ongoing coordinated efforts to update lessons
    - [Slack channel](https://carpentries.slack.com/archives/C08M2AT8FME) for #genai-lesson-updates if you want to help
    - Watch out for pull requests.
    - To provide feedback on new setup instruction, ?????
        - Some Python workshop Mac users are running into installation issues with miniforge-conda

#### 3. General Information
- Finding and making slack channels
- OneDrive ([Issue](https://github.com/swcarpentry/shell-novice/issues/1398) and [PR in shell lesson](https://github.com/swcarpentry/shell-novice/pull/1480))
    - shell lesson group working to provide improved instructions/documentation for finding directories with OneDrive (especially on Windows computers)
    - Jennifer Stubbs is leading effort
- What can we do about loads of (very) old issues?
    - Create a template comment for anything older than 2019 (before the infrastructure redesign) that states that the issue is being closed because it may no longer apply since the redesign
    - Have an issue retirement drive where maintainers work (synchronous or asynch) for a couple of hours to just go through old issues and either update, replace, or retire them (but not try to solve them)


#### 4. Special discussion (if time)
- What is (most) helpful in a transition?
    - Experience from ongoing maintainers
        - the slack channel for contacting other maintainers
        - Update the list of Maintainers in the repository README! A small thing but it will help you feel a sense of ownership.
        - Not having a big backlog of PRs to work on
        - Take some time to look through closed issues / associated PRs to look at how they were handled.
        - Clarifying options via Slack with others before writing up issues on GitHub.
    - Ideas and needs from new maintainers
        - The concept of a "good first issue" but for maintainers
        - Identifying backlogged issues for new maintainers to work on their own for which they can ask for help 
            - Check out our recently added guidance on how to handle stalled contributions: <https://docs.carpentries.org/handbooks/maintainers.html#when-and-how-should-i-take-over-somebody-s-unfinished-contribution>
        - Understanding the top priority/challenge/consideration for a particular lesson (e.g. major rewrite/reorganisation coming down the line, or not) 
        - Are there any lesson-specific notes or explanations for why things are setup a particular way? Going through past issues makes it seem like decisions to not add things are made for particular reasons, but you only get part of the story.
            - some lessons have content like this in the "discuss" page, e.g. <https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/discuss.html> but sadly these are relatively rare. We would _love_ Maintainers to start doing this more often and you absolutely have the power to do so if you want to!
            - Also instructor notes: can embed in individual episodes of a lesson for advice on exercises e.g. ways to save time. (see an example on this page: https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/instructor/index.html)  Can also do general instructor nodes for the lesson in general that show up on the instructor notes page. (see an example of a general Instructor Notes page https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/instructor/instructor-notes.html)  No right answer for instructor notes vs. discuss.  Would use a discss page if one exists but may not go through the trouble of creating one.  But make sure you change "learner" to "instructor" when previewing the lesson to see these pages.


#### 5. Other conversation
- Question about git repository.  I added myself to the maintainers and created a PR.  Bot reviewed it.  Do I merge the PR myself or doe ssomeone else have to review it?
    - You can merge yourself, but for things like updating the README nice to have others review it because there may be other things pending or cosmetic changes that need to be made.
    - See more at https://docs.carpentries.org/handbooks/maintainers.html#when-should-i-merge-my-own-pull-request - falls in between those categories.

### For next meeting

- Wednesday, 18 June, 2025
- Topic ideas?
    - add your ideas here!
