## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 18 November 2025

Attending (1st Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Kristi Liu, she/her, UC Santa Barbara, Geospatial-intro
- Jose Niño Muriel, he/him, University of California - Santa Barbara, Maintainer Community Lead (and also maintainer of DC Social Science )
- Irene Ramos, she/her, OLS and CSIDNet, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Marijane White, she/they, Oregon Health & Science University, OpenRefine for Social Scientists
- Jesse Johnston, he/him, Univ of Michigan School of Information, lc-shell


Attending (2nd Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training (first 30 mins only)
- Jose Niño Muriel, he/him, University of California - Santa Barbara, Maintainer Community Lead (and also maintainer of DC Social Science Spreadsheets)
- Allie Tatarian (they/them), Tufts University, DC Social Science Spreadsheets
- Julieta Millan (she/her) - Python ecology lesson ES (first 30 mins)
- Alex Ball (he/him) - University of Bath (LC Intro to Git)


### Agenda

#### 1. Introductions

- Icebreaker: What is one new skill, concept, or app you learned or started using recently (e.g., a new programming paradigm, a recipe, a language, a productivity app)? What inspired you to learn it?

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team

- New Workbench release upcoming 25 November. You will see a PR from carpentries-bot. The Curriculum Team will merge in quick order, but you're welcome to merge if you get there before us! :joy: 
    - Includes: 
        - [Support for "Cite this lesson" pages](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/679). 
            - Cite this lesson page will *not* be automatically created for your lesson. Only lessons that already have a CITATION.cff file will get this page. 
            - Please *do not* create a CITATION.cff file for your lesson if one doesn't already exist. The Curriculum Team will be working on building those files for all of our official lessons in Q1 2026. 
        - Updated workflows for Workbench
            - Will ensure that updates to workbench packages are automatically integrated into all official lessons (without you needing to watch for and merge PRs from carpentries-bot). 
            - If anything breaks or if you have questions, reach out to Toby and/or Rob on any of the usual channels (Slack Workbench or Maintainers lists; tagging them in on github)



#### 3. General Information
 
- Feel free to suggest topics you’re interested in discussing with other maintainers.
    - Reengaging as maintainer but the lesson has a small number of issues. How to keep the lesson updated with the translation tools available (crowdin)
- How many issues are there usually on a lesson?
    - It varies a lot!
    - Library Carpentry lessons sometimes have long standing issues, or have been opened for a long time
    - Maintainers sometimes are shy to close issues opened before they started
    - I think its okay to reach out to the other lesson maintainers and hammer out some of the older issues, some may not apply anymore

#### 4. Co-working: Working on lesson's Issues

Choose to:
1. Paste the link to one of the issues in your lesson where you'd like input from your fellow maintainers (We can open breakout rooms for discussions)
2. Work on issues on your own lesson


##### Discussion:

- Jose: Should the Spreadsheets lesson include Google Sheets as software learners can use? https://github.com/datacarpentry/spreadsheets-socialsci/issues/97
- Decided to work on https://github.com/datacarpentry/openrefine-socialsci/issues/179, I have committed the change to episode 2 but I am stuck trying to figure out how to edit the prerequisites on the setup and summary page. They are not part of index.md. Help? I found it
- Error in Analyzing... in markdown looks okay.
    - need a blank line 
- How to send a PR from rstudio git
    - fork of lesson > fork locally > push > go to github to PR = Jose's method 
    - this worked for JJ :smile:
- if you have github education you have access to some extra codespaces
    - streamlit stuff can get stopped by a firewall so beware 
- coworking time is muy bueno



#### 5. Other conversation


### For next meeting

- **Date: December 16 at 00:00 and 15:00 UTC**
- Topic ideas?