## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 21 October 2025

Attending (1st Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech, Instructor Training
- Jose Niño Muriel (he/him), University of California - Santa Barbara, DC-Spreadsheets and DC-Ecology-Python
- Irene (she/her), OLS, Python for Ecology in Spanish 
- Erin Graham (she/her), James Cook University, swc git
- Michel M Nzikou(he/him), University of Western Australia, Astronomy leson


Attending (2nd Meeting) *(Name, optional pronouns, Institution, Lesson)*: 

- Toby Hodges, he/him, The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training (cannot join call; lurking on the notes)
- Erin Becker, she/her, The Carpentries, Workbench packages
- Jose Niño Muriel, (he/him), University of California - Santa Barbara, Maintainer Community Lead :tada: 
- Ben Companjen, he/him, Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine for Social Sciences
- Craig Gross, (he/him), Michigan State University, SWC r-novice-gapminder
- Jesse Sadler, he/him, Virginia TEch, R for Social Sciences
- Daniel Cummins, he/him, Imperial College London, MATLAB SWC
- Trevor Keller (they/them), HPC Carpentry
- Hugo Gruson (he/him), EMBL, R for ecologists and R SWC
- Kristi Liu, (she/her), University of California - Santa Barbara, Geospatial R Intro
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, dc genomics
- Mathi Padmanaban, (she/her), University of Michigan-Dearborn, LC-Computational Thinking
- Michel


### Agenda

#### 1. Introductions

- Icebreaker: What's one tool, script, or keyboard shortcut that saved you the most time in the last week?

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team

- New meeting day/time!
- Lesson Develop Training [new Draft](https://tobyhodges.github.io/cldt26-preview/instructor/index.html) going live at the end of 2025!
    - Feedback welcome
- Upcoming community session on Carpentries-wide Governance. Maintainers are welcomed!
    - Meeting 1: 30 October 13:00 UTC ([Find your time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=A+Carpentries+Community+Governance+Gathering&iso=20251030T09&p1=179&ah=1))
    - Meeting 2: 30 October 22:30 UTC ([Find your time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=A+Carpentries+Community+Governance+Gathering&iso=20251030T1830&p1=179&ah=1))
- Open Carpentries-hosted workshop on Python (SWC) [[Registration link](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/software-carpentry-with-python-coding-for-beginners-tickets-1747067870029?aff=oddtdtcreator)] (sold out!) - Erin confirmed, this **is** actually sold out

#### 3. General Information
 
- Feel free to suggest topics you’re interested in discussing with other maintainers.

#### 4. Special discussion - Maintainer Impact Report

- Maintainer Impact Report (sent January, the subject line is `Carpentries Maintainer Impact Report 2024`)
    - Have you reviewed your report?
    - What would you like to see included?
    - What other feedback do you have?


##### Discussion:
- Interested in seeing how numbers changed recently, to see trends.
- Appreciated seeing some numbers, for example for justifying time spent on maintainer work. Nice to see the traffic.
- Repository wasn't being monitored and didn't receive data, but that's fixed now. Maybe it's useful to know where people looking at the lesson are (like country)? Balance between too much info and not at all. In Spanish lessons  this would be particularly useful.
- Number of pageviews is useful to assess if lessons are being used for self-learning? Have a sense of usge beyond workshops
    - I think that’s a really useful distinction and a reminder of the value beyond just the official workshops
- Some baseline to compare it, in order to put numbers in context. +1
    - Comparison to similar lessons.
    - Can maintainer views be substracted?
        - Toby: unfortunately not: web traffic analytics are anonymous so we have no way of knowing who is viewing any given page.
- It wasn't clear if the correct website was being tracked, the numbers looked lower than normal.
- Nice to see the number of times it's been taught.
- Pageviews is good for having a sense of self-learning use.
- Having more involvement or feedback from learners on the lesson
- Issues that haven't been reviewed. Are # of issues increasing or decreasing? Overall report with all lesons for Carpentries
- Great for maintainers' performance reviews
- Note that number of workshops is probably underestimated because not everyone reports the workshops that they teach
- Including a link to the Carpentries page indicating where the workshop has been taught (https://feeds.carpentries.org/)

##### Sample
Maintainer Impact Report for ndporter, Maintainer of carpentries/instructor-training (2024)

Your curriculum was taught in 37 trainings in 2024.
The lesson site received 6354 unique pageviews after we began tracking this data in September 2024, for a total of 14394 minutes (239 hours) visit time.
37 issues and 98 pull requests were opened on your repository last year. 18 issues were closed, 96 pull requests were merged, and an additional 6 pull requests were closed.
This year, you opened 6 pull requests and opened 0 issues. You merged 19 pull requests and closed 7 issues. You also closed 2 pull requests.


#### 5. Other conversation


### For next meeting

- **Date: November 18 at 00:00 and 15:00 UTC**
- Topic ideas?