## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, March 15, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Python Ecology Spanish
- 


2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Zhian (he/him/his), Carpentries, Workbench
- Aditya (he/him/his), CU Boulder, Intro to Geospatial Concepts
- Jamie (she/her/hers), UCLA, LC Intro to Bash/Unix
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Python Ecology Spanish
- James Foster (he/him), CSIRO, DC SQL for Ecologists. 
- Agustina Pesce (she/her), Vancouver, Python Ecology Spanish
- Ulf Schiller (he/him), Clemson University, DC Image Processing

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

- **Reminder: all official lessons will transition to using The Carpentries Workbench on 1 May 2023.** Any open pull requests on lesson repositories will become invalid when the transition occurs. Vini and members of the Curriculum Team are here to support you - if you need help processing outstanding PRs on your repository(ies), or if you have questions about the Workbench transition, please get in touch.
    - May 1st to May 3rd
    - [Documentation available here](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/)
    - Instructor notes will be available directly on the lesson
    - Pull Requests must be merged or closed before the transition. Feel free to contact Zhian, Vini, or Toby if you need help resolving these PRs. 
    - Q: is there anything else we have to do?
    - A: yes, please re-clone
    - Reminder: There are office hours for the Workbench every Tuesday at different times on [The Community Calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events)
- We are developing a new, 60-90 minute skill-up session for lesson Maintainers and would love to find collaborators from the Maintainer community who can contribute to this effort. [The main objectives of the skill-up](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DRYPa4FiU0-b5B0gE17YOW30PpbvlwAscUB5H-BRHYg/edit#heading=h.9obmjgaommf4) will be to demonstrate to Maintainers how they can use GitHub to manage issues; review PRs; resolve merge conflicts; and update (rebase, merge) a fork or branch from upstream changes. 
    **We need people who would like to help us write, review, and/or deliver the skill-up content.** If you would like to get involved, please add your name and GitHub username below:
    - Toby Hodges, tobyhodges
    - Vini Salazar, vinisalazar

- Discussion about R Ecology lesson - needs maintainers. Michael, a previous contributor, will talk with the curriculum advisory committee about possibly redesigning this lesson with a new version. Consider implications of this to Maintainers.
- Check in with Erin about the dates of Maintainer Onboarding.
- Planning for the skill-up
    - Link for tutorial on GitHub Docs
    - Example created in actual example repository, e.g. crispy-doodle
    - Context for when these situations might occur
        - e.g. expanded set of labels from the Carpentries, why we want to use them
        - repository with a few unlabeled issues open
        - 

- Q: About the yearly opt-in survey
- A: High rate of response from the community. All in all, along with this new round of maintainers, the community is in good shape for another year. We have just had a few lessons that need maintainers (e.g. R Ecology Lesson) and that helps us inform allocations for Maintainer onboarding. 

- Q: Ulf - image processing lesson (just released in February) was rewritten so that it's now taught with Jupyter notebooks. One of the questions that came up: how to handle import statements. Where do you put these best? If you have an episode with several exercises, do you need to place the imports at the top or do you place them at the top of each exercise? CAC suggested to reach out to other maintainers to see how they use Jupyter notebooks. 
- one place to open discussions is in slack or in the topicbox or here!
- Vini: I like having the imports at the beginning because it's more along the lines of standard Python and it allows you to catch any errors earlier. 
- James: have you considered the context of the Jupyter notebook? Is it the brower or IDE? Maybe having a notebook aside a console might help
- Jamie: we tried out Jupyter Lab and Desktop which seemed kind of interesting, but it's definitely a jump from Notebooks. 
- Ulf: we have not thought about the context in depth. Our lesson goes through the standard instructions for launching a notebook via anaconda. 
- Zhian: when you're importing these packages, you're importing them as namespaces, e.g. `import pandas as pd`, instead of using something like `from pandas import *`. In R lessons, there's discussions about library calls, where to place, and whether to have a checklist/prerequisite box at the start of each episode stating "Please load these libraries at the start of the episode". In Python, repeated import statements have no effect, so it's OK to repeat them.
- Ulf: on some cases, there are libraries which are newly introduced, so it might be the case of repeating the import statement, but in general it's probably good to have imports at the start.

- James: if we have a parentheical comment in a lesson, what sort of callout box would you use?
    - A great resource for this is the [Workbench Component Guide](https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/component-guide.html)
    - In general, callout boxes are pretty standard
        - `> {: .callout}` in the Styles template
        - Level 2 heading for what you want to call the block
    - Guide for the Styles template available [here](https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-example/04-formatting/index.html#special-blockquotes)
#### 3. Topic of the Month (20 min)
- Maintainer Onboarding
- Communication between Maintainers and CACs/LPGCs
