## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, January 18, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, OpenRefine for Social Sciences
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Python Ecology Spanish

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Zhian N Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Associate Director
- Agustina Pesce, python for ecologists
- Irene Ramos, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Kristi Liu, Reproducible Publications with Rstudio

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

- When repositories change over to Workbench, all Maintainers will need to reclone their repos. Zhian will make a video of how to do this. Irene and Agustina are currently testing the workbench. 
- Agustina - No problems with cloning the repo and installing everything, but found some errors in the lesson links. Is it ok to push these changes to the workbench version?
- Zhian: Yes, perfectly fine to do it. Be aware that - for context - at this moment in the beta phase, lessons have two versions. The workbench version is a sandbox, anything you do there will dissapear. Wouldn't do anything that you want to work on deeply, but feel free to change links. 
- Erin: Question for Agustina, are the links broken because they were broken in the original lesson or if they were broken because they were broken in the workbench?
- Agustina: one was an external link and another was a link to the instructor notes.
- Zhian: This was a problem with the translation to workbench. I need to fix that. 
- Irene: will you make the changes in the original repository or the test?
- Agustina: in the test.
- Irene: first example of the spyder link will also need to be made in 
- Zhian will add to the automated translation so that link is fixed in the new version. 
- Kristi - Is there consideration about changing the workshop template as well?
- Zhian: yes, but later
- Erin: we have _just_ increased the strength of our infrastructure team by 200%, so needed changes will be done at a more rapid pace. 


#### 3. Topic of the Month (20 min)
* Yearly Maintainer Opt-in Survey - 
    * Once a year we require all Maintainers to tell us if they want to continue being a Maintainer for the coming year. Meant to give you time and space to step back as needed.
    * Helps us understand the strength of the maintainer community. Makes sure you don't have non-active maintainers on lessons
    * Amount of time: ~20 seconds
    * We will remind folks several times before the end of February
    * If you forgot to respond and had rights revoked, you can send an email and we will restore them.  
    * Link to survey: [Yearly Maintainer opt-in survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Xr-bJPOeCpt4c_ePrEZPT2FsbyhTso8m4Ql3QK9FLeM/edit)
* Maintainer Onboarding starting in February
    * Applications start in February along with availability forms
    * Onboarding should occur between 20-31 March, with asynchronous option for those that cannot attend
    * Share with whomever you think is interested!

#### 4. Questions from Co-working session (5 min)
- Issues in lesson repository that request comment from the CAC
    - Contact them actively or should the label be enough?
    - Question in Slack channel: **[how to do the communication between Maintainers and CACs?](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/C8H5LN44V/p1674044997507629)**
    - No PRs or issues raised for discussion during the meeting. 
    - There are some co-working sessions for workbench issues, but we need to figure out when those are. We will send a message to Maintainer slack when scheduled. 


#### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
- Maintainer Onboarding Applications