
## Monthly Maintainers' Meeting, September 20, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries, DC Image Processing & Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Ben Companjen (he/him/his), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Genomics Organization
- Alber Sánchez, National Institute for Space Researh, Brazil, Introduction to R for Geospatial Data

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries, The Workbench
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, none/all
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), UCLA, lc-bash
- Kat Koziar, UC Riverside, git-novice
- Elizabeth "Lisa" McAulay (she), University of California, Los Angeles, lc-git and lc-overview
- Girmaye Misgna (he/him/his), (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA)

Agenda:

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based, and the last thing you ate!

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

- The Curriculum Team is looking for a Maintainer Lead
    - https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/09/looking-for-the-next-maintainer-community-lead/
    - [more detailed information (e.g. time commitment)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VCPCXwNV_U_zUZqNFvWk1EBewGgPN6BL9xyU6MT135Y/edit#heading=h.f1xxkf38q1a5) 
       - help out with maintainer onboarding
       - help out with communications
       - total time commitment would be ~ 9 hr/month aka 112 hours / year aka ~5% of time
       - Benefits: membership benefits for your institution (so that they can explicitly count this towards your work).
    - _"Although this role has previously been filled by a single individual, we’d like to explore the possibility of sharing the responsibilities between a team moving forward, given the geographically dispersed nature of the Maintainer community."_
    - Vini is getting into the final stages of his Ph. D. and is stepping down. 
    - we are interested in having people in a different pair of timezones (e.g. Europe and US West Coast [heavy hint to the members of the second maintainer meeting])
    
- Upcoming GitHub Skill-ups for Maintainers
    - 4 sessions scheduled in October: see dates and register to attend at https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023
    - curriculum for these sessions is at https://carpentries.github.io/github-skill-up-maintainers/ : **please use it to lead your own sessions!** (hint hint)
    - Toby also has some (rudimentary) scripts to automate the setup of example lesson repositories to help teach these sessions
    - Jamie: For windows and linux, they have putty instead of openssh on windows, I'm wondering about their choice for that (wrt to skillup maintainers).
        - Zhian: :embarassed: that's boilerplate
    - Lisa: I will be attending the Oct 17 (Pacific Daylight) skillup and looking forward to that. There are a lot of them and it would be worthwile. 
    **Topic Follow up :** Additional Maintainer Skill Up Request - Git and Github training
    - Lisa: (context of second meeting) pointing out the discussion below. It would be good to discuss this. In particular the notion about creating a particular curriculum for maintainers that does cover git and github. 
    - Erin: the maintainer onboarding was modified last year and the github skillup was created to address this gap. Toby left note about one of the complex pieces is that while true that not everyone on the lesson needs to be compotent in git and github as long as the maintainers are communicating. We have tried tos et up maintainer teams so that there are a different separation of skills within team, but that' hasn't met out
    - Kat: when I started on the git lesson it was around the time when the slack channel so that we could discuss these issues. It was originally a private slack channel and then it became a public channel. Felt wary about discussing maintainer issues in a public channel. We moved over to private discussions since then. It's still difficult because of the challenges with chasing down people via email.
    - Erin: We are trying to provide support to set up private channels on slack for maintainers, please contact Erin if you would like this implemented. 
    - Lisa: I am still struggling with communicating with my co-maintainers. I feel like I'm on two lessons and I'm the only one responsible. There are a bunch of names on this still. This kind of work is important for credit for peer review, but it feels like people who check the box but don't show up make it more difficult. 
    - Jamie: I've gotten a bit behind on maintenance because I've been taking over a lot of servers. One of my co-maintainers _just_ reached out to me.
    - Erin: This is definitely not an isolated incident and there are some people who do drop off. One of the solutions that we have tried to implement in the past is implementing minimum requirements of service. There was some pushback that that would discuourage people from contributing in any way they could. This was where the opt-in survey came from. This gave us a baseline for capacity. From what we know now, that's not an optimal solution because there are still people who opt-in but do not talk to co-maintainers and do not contribute to the repository. It might be time to come back to thinking about the requirements for service. I would be interested in hearing your thoughts on this.
    - Jamie: I did not know the etiquitte around issues and meeting fellow maintainers would allow discussion for how to address issues and pull requests
    - Kat: wrt the git novice lesson, I'm the only one who has access to do anything on the repo. We have three other maintainers; one is relatively new and the others have been around a while. There will be times when we are overwhelmed with other things and we still want to contribute, but there are new things happening (e.g. MFA) and the people who are plugged in but without capacity have really good responses. They set expectations around time. Having that conversation and giving a little bit of grace is important. 
    - Lisa: 100% affirm what has been said here
    - Erin: from the staff side, the balance we struggle with is that wwe want to provide opportunities for people to contribute in any way they want to and not provide barriers for anyone, but we also do not want to lend
    - Zhian: Consider providing a rubric or template for enabling Maintainers to have that conversation.Jamie wondered about the ettiuqite for how to respond to issues - I'm currently training new Maitnainers for Workbench and that's a valid good question. Not only would it be helpful to provide that private place for people to communicate but also a set of questions that would be useful to get the conversation started. 
    - Lisa: Yes, a guide to conversation would be helpful. You have a new Maintainer on your lesson, what should you do as a minicommunity. Here are the questions you should talk through. The reason I show up to this meeting is to have that community and I don't have that in my lessons. Maybe collaboration accross lessons would be a key to increasing engagement. There's a lot of awkwardness because I feel like I'm part of a team and want to set up team norms, but it feels like yelling into a cavern. 
    - Erin: In the past we had started to establish software-specific maintainer groups so that people who work on the git lesson across lesson programs would have the community to discuss issues related to that particular software together. I think this would be something that we should revisit. The fix is not necessarily bringing on more maintianers, but it's to fix the gap 
    - Lisa: I had an idea for this year, but there wasn't enough time to get it through: invite existing maintainers to the new maintainer lessons and have them introduce themselves in breakout rooms.
    - Kat: when are the assignments done? It woudl be good to have the lessons assigned early so that we can have them meet the current maintainers
    - Jamie: I like the idea of a meet and greet and I hope I can make it! I had someone on a lesson reach out and say "let's meet!" Knowing who people are and attaching a github handle to a face is helpful even if we are all over the place.
    - Erin: This would be really helpful especially if we are establishing cross-tool groups. 
        
    - Alber: is it possible to also teach the Software Carpentry Version Control with Git?
        - Toby: had been assuming Maintainers had the fundamentals from that lesson already, but that may not be true
        - Alber: one barrier to entry for Maintainers is the conceptual challenges of Git & version control, teaching a session could help with this. Perhaps a curriculum for Maintainers?
        - Jake: I think dropping the need for all Instructors to be familiar with version control has created a gap. Might make sense to schedule a half-day git lesson onto call for Maintainers, to allow people a chance to get the basics before deciding whether or not to apply.
        - Ben: in my Maintainer Onboarding, we mostly focused on communication/interaction. A little bit of GitHub. I also think that you do not need a lot of actual Git knowledge, which is what the SWC lesson covers. You do not need to leave the browser if you do not want to.
        - Jake: I am excited about the skill-up because I am not all that familiar with the GitHub interface. But I do wonder if we are discounting the value of the mental model because we all already have it?
       ** Topic: ** Maintainer Communication
        - Toby: bigger problem I observe is lack of communication and coordination between Maintainers on a given lesson. Would love to hear ideas about how to address this.
        - Jake: I also recall feeling a lack of confidence about how and when to do things, and it was also really hard to engage any of my co-Maintainers in a conversation about how to approach things. I would love a system to exist that sets expectations for engagement from Maintainers, but I guess each team has their own system and we need to allow volunteers to contribute autonomously. For me, recommendations of structure would be helpful. Templated agendas, suggested frequency of meetings.
        - Lisa (2nd meeting): I agree with Jake!
        - Alber: reminds me of The Cathedral and the Bazaar (https://mijowa.github.io/CatB/). Part of problem is the model of development we are using. For Bazaar model to work we need a critical mass of Maintainers, but perhaps what Toby is mentioning re:lack of communication is that we are below that critical mass for most lessons. In Cathedral model, someone puts issues together and people can come and grab defined packages of work. 
        - Toby: with maintainers "curating" and encouraging the contributions that would be welcomed from the community?
        - Alber: e.g. the way infrastructure migration was coordinated could work for larger changes to curriculum as well, and this kind of work is not responsibility of Maintainers. But problem is what happens when technology changes: should Maintainers be responsible for addressing that, or someone else?
        - Jake: on one hand, Maintainers role is explicitly not to develop curriculum, and Curriculum Advisors have signed up to advise but also not to develop. So I like the idea of standing up "committees" to make the changes as needed. Or even a consultation committee and then a second call for the people to implement it. I have made major changes to Git lesson, in my own fork, but I do not feel I can submit back as a PR as it would require more consultation than only with me. Similar thoughts about DC Genomics lessons.
        - Toby: and what about communication/coordination between Maintainers?
        - Jake: what would you think about minimum requirements for remaining a Maintainer? Baseline contributions (very low bar) for remaining?
        - Toby: Something like this was proposed before, in https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15 - we should return to this in another meeting.
        - Jake: I will read. Karen does a good job of communicating the requirements in a non-judgemental way for Trainer community.
        - Toby: Maintainer opt-in survey was the "bare minimum" solution we implemented to help us plan Maintainer Onboarding. If it turns out that this wasn't enough, I think it is worth exploring further steps.
        - Alber: in terms of engagement, gamification & contribution drives could help e.g. hackathons for Maintainer community to focus on a particular lesson.
        - Jake: love the idea of hackathons. Can help with closing issues, resolving uncertainty about how to proceed with an issue
        - From Lisa: I do think that the opt-in survey is not meeting the minimum bar. I still don't have any maintainers who I have been able to develop a communicative relationship with. 
        - Erin: One of the challenges is finding the right balance between setting a minimum bar of service and encouraging volunteerism. 

*Topic* adding to 1st session from 2nd Session  :  - Lisa: Adding into the discussion (asynchronously), I think the advertising for "please become a Maintainer" (as I heard it delivered in a recent skill up session (on issues)) is "you don't have to know Git and Github to become a Maintainer" -- so I think that does acknowledge that there could be some gap that would be worth supporting 
- Please complete the steps to restore your access to your lesson repositories post-infrastructure transition, if you have not already done so.
    - Deadline of start of October has been communicated in some cases, but I think this will be pushed back because we have not yet communicated to every lesson repository.

### 3. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues


From Lisa McAulay (in advance of meeting) - the idea of "reviving" the RFCs was the topic of June's Maintainers Meeting, https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources/blob/main/2023/2023-06-21.md

Not sure what the decision/ conclusion was. it looks like RFCs were on the agenda for the August 2023 meeting, but I don't see any notes there. Are RFCs revived ... or still languishing?
- Toby: Due to limited Curriculum Team capacity, I do not think RFCs will be revived until at least the new Maintainer Community Lead has been onboarded
- Lisa: Sounds good. 

### 4. Other Questions & Topics

- Hacktoberfest: very commercial, and changing every year --- you don't even get a t shirt anymore. I will try to make open issues on my repository more actionable, which can help. If others have these accessible issues, you can try to make them actionable and add the 'hacktoberfest' label and you might get a "drive-by" pull request.
- Jamie: In the past, Tim Dennis would order pizza for the students and do hacktoberfest in one big group.
- Lisa: We participated when central carpentries was running stuff at UCLA. It was a good experience and was one step to get into the carpentries, but I don't know much about it specifically. 

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
