## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, June 21, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine for Social Sciences (and Ecology)
- Toby Hodges (he/him), DC Image Processing, Carpentries Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Project Management and Organization for Genomics
- Jean Baptiste Fankam Fankam, University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa, Workshop Social Sciences lesson

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Lisa McAulay (official first name: Elizabeth) (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Library, LC Git and LC Overview
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA Data Science Center, lc-bash

Agenda:

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

- There is now a [Style Guide for lesson source files in the new infrastructure](https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/style.html)
    - if you have questions about anything else syntax-related, please open an issue in the sandpaper-docs source repository, Toby will suggest that Zhian adds a 'style-guide' label for issues - PRs are also welcome!
        - Toby to add a recommendation about bullet lists using `-`
    - Jake: have you considered adding a link to the style guide in the CONTRIBUTING.md of lessons?
        - Toby: that is definitely a good idea but will require opening a PR to update the CONTRIBUTING across all lesson repositories (again - thanks Jake!)
- post Workbench rollout Q&A
    - Ben: agree that it would be helpful to consolidate and reorganise documentation, rename sandpaper-docs
    - Toby: based on https://diataxis.fr/, aiming to take a more intentional approach to organise and present the info based on target audience
    - Ben: sandpaper-docs is a tutorial but I also find I go there looking for reference things. There is also Maintainer Onboarding lesson materials, I have needed The Carpentries Style Guide (for question about UK vs US English, guidance for exercise titles, etc). There are things that apply to multiple groups of people: I would like to ask Instructors how they would like to have exercise titles presented.
        - (Toby: the GitHub for Maintainers site is probably also relevant)
- tour of a Workbench lesson repository
- make sure to get your Maintainer access reinstated! (Workbench lesson repositories only.) See the instructions on the lesson transition issue on your lesson repository

For the second instance of the Maintainers Meeting, Lisa and Jamie reviewed the notes above. 
Lisa and Jamie looked quickly at the Style Guide.
Then we looked each of our lesson's repository pages in Github and began working on post-Workbench transition reinstatement. 
Lisa re-cloned the lc-git lesson to her local machine and entered a comment to get her Maintainer access reinstated on that lesson.
Jamie had some difficulty cloning and was going to research the error message she was getting. 
Lisa needs to remind herself of what the plan and timeline is for transitioning the LC Overview lesson (there was an "Overview Lessons excepted" decision in April or May 2023 when some incompatibilities were discovered)

### 3. Topic of the Month (20 min)
- Revive [Maintainer RFCs](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues)
    - RFC = Request For Comment
    - Jake: the repository seems to be only an issue list. Looks like occasionally, someone would bring questions for the Maintainer community and add them to this list?
    - Toby: yes, that's pretty much it. Usually a member of the Core Team or the Maintainer Community Lead. But there is also the TopicBox and Slack channel. 
    - Jake: I would prefer one channel and one only, but understand that different people have different preferences for communication channel.
    - Ben: agree.
    - Jake: wouldn't mind an escalating workflow, e.g. conversations might start on Slack but move to an RFC issue if it reaches a point where input from all Maintainers is required.
    - Toby: will bring this discussion back to the Curriculum Team and we can try to prepare a more focussed discussion with specific questions for next time.
    - ADDITIONAL COMMENTS from LISA (2nd instance of meeting): I second Jake's preferencce for one channel and one only for communication. (And documentation about what that 1 channel is!)

### Question time

- Jake: I was added as a Maintainer for genomics-workshop when I joined as a Maintainer for genomics-organization, is it ok that I have been merging PRs?
    - Toby: I would have to confirm with Erin but I think this is intended - Maintainers of lessons should not need to wait for another Maintainer group to make changes to e.g. Setup instructions for their lesson in the Overview site.

### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
