## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, February 15, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine for Social Sciences

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Zhian Kamvar (he/him/his), Carpentries, Workbench
- Vini Salazar (he/him/his), University of Melbourne, Python Ecology Spanish
- Valentina Hurtado-McCormick (she/her), CSIRO, N/A
- Elizabeth (Lisa) McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, Library Carpentry, 2 lessons: Git and Overview
- Jennifer Stubbs (she/her), Bradley University, Illinois: LC-OpenRefine


Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
* Workbench Beta Phase update
    * four lesson repositories have transitioned to using the Workbench: read more at https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/02/dovetail-15/
    * at the beginning of April, the Beta Phase will end and the lesson sites for these four lessons will be the version built with the Workbench
    ::: info
    * At the beginning of May, **all official lessons will transition from _styles_ to the Workbench**
        * Any open pull requests will become invalid
        * Repository organisation and file formats will change
        * Please work with your fellow Maintainers to prepare for this!
    ::::
    * Q: Aside from processing and closing/merging open PRs, what else do Maintainers have to do?
        * You will need to re-clone/re-fork your lesson repository and request that your edit access is restored to the lesson repository
        * You might find it helpful to browse one of the Beta Phase lesson repositories (or another Workbench lesson repo) to get familiar with the new structure and formats. E.g.
            * https://github.com/datacarpentry/r-socialsci
            * https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training
    * Weekly Workbench Beta Phase Coworking sessions have been added to the Community Calendar on Tuesdays. Three time slots, hosted by Zhian, Vini, and Toby respectively. You are welcome to join these, even if your lesson is not in the Beta Phase, as an opportunity to ask questions and prepare for your lesson's transition. In April, after Beta Phase has finished, these sessions will remain in the calendar but will be renamed to "Workbench Coworking Sessions", and all Maintainers invited to join to spend time preparing for the transition.
        * Time slots: 09:30, 16, 22, all UTC
  * Question: Has anyone had trouble contacting their co-maintainers? 
      * This is part of the purpose of the opt-in survey, and yes, it is difficult sometimes because everyone is a volunteer. 
      * In the case that you can't get feedback, you can make the decisions
      * When you reply to the opt in survey, you can mention the lack of contact with your other maintainers.  

#### 3. Topic of the Month (20 min)
* Yearly Maintainer Opt-in Survey
    * Reminder to answer survey until end of February
    * Link to survey: [Yearly Maintainer opt-in survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Xr-bJPOeCpt4c_ePrEZPT2FsbyhTso8m4Ql3QK9FLeM/edit)
* Maintainer Onboarding happening in March
    * Applications start today!
    * [Link to survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdmboNdlZUHGz3-7sEPEbZBeFVK0bTJ_7x6TADCwEH6RBY5zw/viewform?usp=sf_link)
    * Onboarding should occur between 20-31 March, with asynchronous option for those that cannot attend
    * Share with whomever you think is interested!
    * Q: will new Maintainers join before or after Workbench transition?
        * Before, but this round of onboarding will include training on the Workbench
    * Q: would it be a good idea or disruptive to re-attend the onboarding session? 
        * e.g. as a way to meet new maintainers and onboard the maintainers
    * A: It's a good idea; Zhian will talk to Erin about this
    * Comment: during Onboarding, it would be good to be able to select a Lesson/topic of preference, but still stay open to assist with whatever is needed
    * Q: What is the time commitment you expect?
    * A: (Vini) It varies from lesson to lesson. I would say that from what I see roughly: ~ 1 hour per week on a lesson with a lot of activity. Should be enough for you to be able to address issues and pull requests, but depending on the lesson it can be less. Agreed by Zhian and Lisa. Sometimes things like major reviews can come up, but usually you will have help/deal with that as a team.
    * How to manage notifications as a Maintainer?
        * In many email clients (e.g. Gmail), you can create a filter for your repository by clicking on the sender -> create filter for mailing list. Each repository has a mailing list that sends out messages. You can then add a label/skip inbox/mark as important/etc.
        * The syntax for a mailing list is `list:(<repo>.<organisation>.github.com)`. You can use this on the search bar to create a filter to label the message and skip the inbox. 
        * Example `list:(lc-git.librarycarpentry.github.com)` will catch all messages to the library carpentry shell lesson 

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

#### 5. Questions from Co-working session (5 min)
- What are we doing regarding the [deprecation of GitHub Team Discussions](https://github.blog/changelog/2023-02-08-sunset-notice-team-discussions/)?
    - Toby's answer: I am not sure how many Maintainer Teams are using Team Discussions to coordinate their maintenance activities, but if any of our lessons are relying on this, I think repository-level Discussions could provide a direct alternative, or the Curriculum Team can set up some equivalent on the organisational level e.g. in the `datacarpentry` GH organisation discussion board. 
        - Ben: I think Team Discussions are private, while repo Discussions are always public
        - Toby: I would need to investigate whether there are ways to limit the visibility of discussions at the repo and/or org level. If there is now no way for Maintainers to have private discussions, they will need to adopt an alternative: private group on TopicBox or private channel on Slack. But feel that vast majority of Maintainer-Maintainer discussions could happen in public.
- Reviewing PR in LC Git lesson
    - Are labels/assignments/ etc necessary? 
        - Assignments are OK if you'd like to announce that you will be handling a particular issue/PR, but not really necessary
        - The `help wanted` label can add issues to the [Help Wanted page](https://carpentries.org/help-wanted-issues/)
- Has anyone taken issue to the CAC regarding major restructuring?
    - Vini: that has come up in broad terms of how to bridge the CAC with maintainers and how to support maintiners in implementation. No process in place as of yet, but in process of restructuring CAC and thinking about how they can interact with the maintainers. 
    - Valentina: I applied for the LPGC and this is the committee that is supposed to help connect the maintainers and the CACs. This will definitely come up in the following weeks. Right now, theya re going through applications. 
- Anything you would like to talk to CACs about?
    - Purpose of Overview lesson, is it used? Two main components: workshop pitch, tidy data -> perhaps the latter could be a lesson in itself, not a topic in Overview.

#### 6. For next meeting (5 min)

- How can Maintainers contact CACs? -> should make this a Topic of the Month
    - Until very recently (~2yrs), CACs weren't really a thing, and the Maintainer community wasn't as structured
    - For the future, we are hoping to stablish clear communication channels between CACs/LPGCs and Maintainers
    - Take the concern of "high-level" matters away from Maintainers so that they can focus on technical issues

