## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, May 17, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community Lead
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine for Social Sciences and Ecology
- Martino Sorbaro (he/him), ETH Zurich, Python novice gapminder
- Alber Sánchez, National Institute for Space Research in Brazil, Maintainer of "R for Raster and Vector Data"


2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, The Workbench
- Travis Wrightsman (he/him), Cornell University, Genomics Overview/Workshop
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), UCLA Data Science Center, lc-bash
- Lisa McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, 2 lessons: library carpentry overview, 
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community
- Heidi Steiner (she/her), UArizona, organization-genomics

Agenda:

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

Workbench - Migration is complete (with the exception of the workshop overview lessons, which will transition in September)

- Workbench expects that lessons are made up of episodes, but for the overview lessons (excepting the Library Carpentry overview) do not have episodes. The template will be revised to accommodate these. 

If you have any trouble installing Workbench, please open a ticket in Github (https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/issues). Zhian, Toby, and Erin will all be fielding those questions and helping everyone.

Thank you to all the maintainers! You all have been very supportive and helpful!

Vini recently taught a workshop with a lesson that had just transitioned to Workbench the night before, and the experience was seamless -- everything worked really well!

#### Community programming sessions

https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/04/new-community-programming/

The same way we had the GitHub skillup sessions in the maintainer onboarding, we are hoping to have skillup sessions or coworking sessions to help support members to organize these sessions locally outside of the workshop context. 

### 3. Topic of the Month - Maintainer Onboarding (20 min)

- [Welcome new maintainers!](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/05/welcome-new-lesson-maintainers/)
    - It's hard to know how to get started!
    - A challenge is connecting with your co-maintainers
        - Should I talk to something before I do something?
            - You can't break it! It's version controlled, so we can always rollback
    - Coming to the Maintainers' Meeting is great for that!
    - A good strategy is going to the GitHub repository and "starting from the top"
    - Heidi: Is it fine to direct message other maintainers on Slack? Or is it good practice to have the discussion in the comments thread?
    - Lisa: If I can get a conversation going, I prefer to have a discussion in slack informally and then record notes in the GitHub comments. 
    - Vini: for things like questions that you are not sure about, it's fine to ping someone on slack. Discussions about making decisions on the content of the lesson is good to have on GitHub directly. It's also good to have conversations on GitHub with contributors.
    - Open communication on GH is a good practice of illustrating how to communicate/learn from external contributor
- [Instructor Notes Drive](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/05/instructor-notes-drive-schedule/)
    - We now have instructor notes in-line in the lesson content
        - Vini: this feature is really helpful to have instructor view with these pointers inline with the lesson as opposed to a separate page. 
    - Coordinated effort to get contributors to migrate instructor notes to the lesson content.
    - See blog: https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/05/instructor-notes-drive-schedule/
    - There were six sessions over the last week to add instructor notes to our lessons. Not as much engagement as we hoped for. There is [a collaboration sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UEo5be8-jadaDoduWS5ssTGXtYmfzT9uIV6dugiZyLQ/edit#gid=0) that describes the lessons that need this the most.
    - Question from Ben: how are general instructor notes generated
    - For each lesson, the **instructor notes page**, e.g. [Image Processing](https://datacarpentry.org/image-processing/instructor/instructor-notes.html) shows general instructor notes and the **episode headings**, which are clickable and takes you to the episode
- Blog post from Alycia: [New community programming](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/04/new-community-programming/)
    - e.g., GitHub Skillup
    - Organise local-based efforts for skill development
    - Dates for each topic?
        - These are some new ways to have small group / local events activities with some structure (host your own skillup, as opposed to hosting only workshops using the lessons; or host your own co-working session)
        - Questions?
If you have any questions about changes to our community programming or about being a Community Session Host, we would love to connect with you. You can attend one of the Director of Community’s three office hours in May.

Monday, 8 May, 20:00 UTC (find your time)
Monday, 15 May, 15:00 UTC (find your time)
Wednesday, 25 May, 0:00 UTC (find your time)

- [Workbench rollout](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/transition-schedule.html)
    - Most lessons have transitioned, except for the workshop overview lessons

#### Workbench features related to accessibility:

- automated link checking (for security, length, and descriptiveness)
- automated check for alt text for figures
- heading validation (for levels)
- Question from Ben: are these features implemented already?
    - Yes, they are part of the Workbench infrastructure and checked by GitHub Actions
    - Follow-up: would lesson checks fail if i.e. an image is added without alt-text
        - Not sure, may relay question to Brynn/Zhian, but automated checks are designed to provide that feedback during development
- We can see GitHub Actions Workflows by clicking in the [Actions tab](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/actions) of a repository
    - [Warnings show in the Builds workflow](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/actions/runs/4986430141)
    - Warnings also show in the Pull Requests tab
        - https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/pull/96/files
    - Warnings show not only for things such as the accessibility features, but also when files are moved, etc.

### Question time
- Linux users have been experiencing difficulties to install the dependencies to build lessons locally
    - If that's happening to you, please consider [opening an issue in the Carpentries Workbench repository](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/issues/new)

- Will the incubator courses also be transitioned to workbench?
    - Yes, but this will be dependent on the maintainer effort on that side

- How can I transition a lesson to Workbench in a fork? (e.g. Conda incubator course)
    - If you want to continue updating, it hard: https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/issues/51
    - There will be a Skillup session in the future about the transition workflow, how to transition an incubator lesson

- Is there functionality to generate slides for a workshop? Or a central slide repository for the Carpentries?
    - Persistent "hard question" in the community
    - Alycia Crall and Karen Word are good persons to ask -- especially if we can store files somewhere centrally for sharing
    - There's an old issue about that in the [Styles repo](https://github.com/carpentries/styles/issues/113)
    - Would be an useful resource to the community
    - Difficulty in concilliating content from slides and lessons
    - One of the many difficulties is that there are some many different ways of creating slides: PPT, Google Slides, Jupyter Slides, Beamer, [Quarto](https://quarto.org/), etc.
    - Non-related: Quarto is nice!
    - Slides are a chance to give a personal flair
    - Still, there could be a centralised resource so people don't have to reinvent wheel

### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

- A specific repository (https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues) we will review next meeting
- Maintainer Meeting Minutes are in the Maintainer Resources repository : https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)