## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, July 19, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), DC Image Processing + Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Ben Companjen (he/him/his), Leiden Uni Libs, DC OpenRefine for Social Sciences (and Ecology)
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, DC Genomics Organization

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Python Ecology Spanish
- Elizabeth "Lisa" McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, LC Git and LC Overview
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), UCLA, LC Bash/Shell


Agenda:

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

* Upcoming community sessions relevant to Maintainers
    * Carpentries 25th Anniversary Celebration Launch // 24 July 2023 19:00 UTC
    * Skill-up: Contributing to the Carpentries Lessons in GitHub // 29 August 2023 18:00 UTC
    * Community Discussion Session with The Carpentries Executive Council // 30 September 2023 19:00 UTC
    * find all of these on the community calendar: https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events
    * sign up to attend at: https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023
    * (Anniversary event sign-up is being handled through EventBrite: https://rb.gy/jiqsf)
* 

### 3. Topic of the Month (20 min)

* Retiring the Curriculum Development Handbook
    * https://github.com/carpentries/curriculum-development/issues/81
    * Toby: 
    * Jake: not familiar enough with CDH to have strong opinions.
    * Ben: not much new to say, beyond what was shared on Slack. Please communicate concrete timeline for changes, if you go ahead with it, and communicate how things will happen and in what order. You could add the additional context added on Slack to the GitHub issue as well.
    * Toby: Thanks for these suggestions. Will also add a banner flagging up that resource will be retired - if we decide to do so. Also change issue template to flag this up.

### Question time

* Jake: when I got involved as a Maintainer, was expecting more lesson contribution activity - will there be lesson development training?
    * Ben: funny because I had specifically intended _not_ to be a lesson developer, but realised that many issues in my lesson require more than fixing typos, responding to issues etc.
    * Toby: This curriculum is directed at people who want to make brand new lessons. It was only possible to aim the curriculum at one group of people at a time, and that's the group we chose first. Once this is up and running, hope to turn focus to updating and maintaining content of existing lessons. In the meantime, if you want to start making/suggesting any major changes or updates - please do, and the Curriculum Team can do something to help already.

* Toby: @Ben, what additional support/resources etc could you have benefitted from when making recent updates to the SocSci OpenRefine lesson?
    * Ben: theoretically have the system and support needed, but what I lack is time and (active) fellow Maintainers/contributors to help with it. Help make changes, and also reviewing, providing feedback on PRs. CAC only meets quarterly, so sometimes have to wait a long time for a response - sometimes could benefit from it being quicker. I also asked CAC to review a PR, which may not be something they regularly do. Communications with the committee happen on GitHub: feels not very polite (especially requesting a PR review through GitHub's tooling). Not sure if the CAC is exptecing this kind of communication,or if they are ok with it

* Lisa asked about transition of LC-Overview lesson: what is the timeline for that? **Follow up with Zhian and post update to Slack.**

* Problems with cloning repos: solved by using `git-bash`. 

### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
