## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, August 16, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), DC Image Processing with Python
- Ben Companjen (he/him/his), UB Leiden, DC OpenRefine for SocSci
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Python Ecology Spanish


2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Jamie Jamison, UCLA Library, library carpentry unix/bash
- Kristi Liu, UCSB Library, Reproducible Publications with Rstudio
- Regrets: Elizabeth "Lisa" McAulay, University of California Los Angeles Library, Library Carpentry Git, Library Capentry Overview



Agenda:

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

- Changes to Instructor Training checkout have come in:
    - https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/08/checkout_changes/
    - Any concerns about the new process, from a Maintainers' perspective?
        - Ben: not really. We were consulted on changes last year, talked then about frustrations around some contributions that came in as part of checkout. Understand why lesson contributions are now optional.
        - Kristi: optional contributions +1. When I was fresh out of instructor training, I was like "yeah I found a typo in this code chunk" and that was my pull req. but I'm not sure how others approached that exercise. 
    - Ben: it would be good if Instructors were more incentivised to give feedback after they teach. We always debrief after workshops and discuss issues that could be opened based on our experience.
        - Toby: I agree. What could we do to incentivise them like this?
        - Ben: Could encourage them in automated email sent out after a workshop, provide guidance to them on how to make suggestions to lessons.
        - Toby: Could add this to the existing email templates. We also have plans to improve lesson publication workflow to better credit contributions. Would want to include a step to ensure credit for contibutions that do not get reflected in Git commit history (e.g. Instructor opening an issue without needing to also open PR to address it). This second part will require some intervention from Maintainers, so we must think carefully about how to make that easy for you all.
        - Kristi: We try to make it to community discussions, but honestly, we forget. 
     - Kristi and Jamie bond over installation issues, JupyterHub instances, Catering 
         - library python is...spyder?
         - Super UC Carpentries prep
         - Outreach is a painpoint. Postmortem.(this may have been difficult last year because we immediately ran into UC GIS Week)
        - Why are PIs so obsessed with avoiding filling in metadata? 
         - Is this a bad time of the year? just me and Jamie

### 3. Topic of the Month (20 min)

Vini has stepped down as Maintainer Community Lead.
(Thank you, Vini!)
The Carpentries is looking to replace him, and exploring the option of making this a shared role among multiple Maintainers. Please contact [Erin Becker](mailto:ebecker@carpentries.org) if you would be interested in getting involved with this.
Brief summary of the current duties of the role (this is open for a bit of reinterpretation):
1. Coordinate and faciliate Maintainer meetings and communications with the Maintainer community
2. Assist with Maintainer Onboarding
3. Represent the Maintainer community in meetings with Core Team, as required

### Question time

Ben: would it be possible to preview changes made by pull requests in an online environment?
Toby: This has come up in another meeting, without a conclusion. It is unclear how much it would cost to run these workflows on Netlify, for example, and since lessons can contain RMarkdown, it is important to prevent bad code from running.
> [Kristi: According to Zhian, in lessons formatted to workbench, since its rmarkdown, maintainers should be able to see if the actual changes have the desired effect when you compare the changes between the original vs PR. ]
> 
Ben: Workflows could run perhaps only after Maintainer approval, as a manual workflow.
Toby: will bring this suggestion to the Curriculum Team.
Kristi: When is the next maintainer onboarding? UCSB missed the most recent one. 
Kristi: Are maintainer meetings always kinda low attendance? Our team is all working on the same lessons (reproducibility, twarc, geospatial) and we work in the same building, but Jamie brought up a point that she doesn't know the other maintainers in her lesson.  

### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
