
## Monthly Maintainers' Meeting, December 13, 2023

-----

## 2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- **Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson**
- Isaac Jennings (he/him), Griffith University/QCIF, [Programming with R](https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-inflammation)
- Elizabeth "Lisa" McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, Library Carpentry Overview and Library Carpentry Git
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech, Instructor Training Maintainer and Maintainer Community Lead
- Jennifer Stubbs she/her, Maintainer/Instructor LC-Open Refine, Illinois, USA
- Irene Ramos (she/her), Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Cody Hennesy (he/him), Library Carpentry Intro to Python, Minnesota, USA

**Agenda:**

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

Name, location, favorite beverage to drink in cold weather
Nathaniel Porter, Maintainers Lead, Coffee (ideally with espresso shots added)
Cody Hennesy, Minnesota (it's pretty cold), Green Tea
Lisa McAulay, University of California, Los Angeles, Bulletproof Coffee
Irene Ramos, tea in the afternoon, and coffee in the morning
Jennifer Stubbs, Illinois, maintainer for LC Open Refine, from experience living in Russia and China, loves good tea!

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
- Staffing changes and the maintainer community (conveyed by Nathaniel from Erin/Toby)
Announced on the Carpentries blog: 7 of 15 core team have been laid off. 
Core Team will have less ability to support curriculum advisory work. Some CACs may not continue forward since the level of work required of them will now increase. 
Curriculum Development and Support remains a high priority for the Core Team. So it will be a process of adjusting to changes. 
Library Carpentry Curriculum Advisory Committee will likely continue forward, and will probably want to recruit more people. Toby has been a huge support and key member. So LC will go forward.
Concern from group about openness/transparency/sustainability 

### 3. Other Questions & Topics
- [CFP for Lesson Proposals](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info/cfp) (UCLA/IMLS Open Science for Librarians)

Great opportunity to get support developing curriculum.

- Subcommunity coworking (interest gauge) https://forms.gle/zgvQZ53wGPWi9f6K9

We all took a couple minutes to complete the form. 

### 4. Special topic: Pre/post issue discussion
- *This month, we're provide some time to share either about how you successfully resolved a difficult issue/PR/project or one that poses an ongoing challenge (and maybe get some feedback on fruitful approaches to consider)*

- Examples of challenges/successes
    - Constant challenges keeping links and discussion of thingsoutside our lesson clean and up to date (even with other Carpentries material) [Example - lists of Carpentries checklists](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1616)
    - We haven't had much activity in our lesson, but next year I want to work on cleaning up the exercises after the workbench update. And maybe comparing English vs Spanish lesson to see if there's something to update.
    - Revamping old (abandoned) curriculum - Trying to create a new maintainer community for a lesson that is likely to see a fair amount of use, but is currently far out of date. There's not a great model for this, so it's a bit of a challenge to define roles. Currently one person taking on the bulk of an initial re-write and others helping to edit. Hoping the next phase will involve co-maintainers tackling more substantial issues (e.g., editing all exercises for specific episodes).
        - Will work to follow peer-review process - will have LC-CAC do a first review - and then do checklist to proceed from pre-alpha up to stable (hopefully)
        - Translation teams mights be similar - primary translator, reviewers
    - Coordinating similar updates across different curriculum (e.g. spreadsheet tables or R versioning updates, etc.)
        - Git changes to MFA was identified cross-group and fairly simple to write for everyone and then put out multiple pull requests
        - Potentially create ideas for cross-posting in Slack (maybe new channels too) to encourage sharing updates across related lessons
        - Linktree as another idea to provide multiple related comms links etc for example https://linktr.ee/ucsbscioly

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
- Next meeting January 17th
- Topic requests
    - Project management with Git milestones and projects +1

---

## 1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting): 
- **Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson**
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech, Instructor Training Maintainer & Maintainer Community Lead
- Toan Phung (he/him), University of Dundee, Maintainer/Instructor
- Hugo Gruson (he/him), data.org, Maintainer
- Toby Hodges (he/hi), The Carpentries, Maintainer on DC Image Processing and Collaborative Lesson Development Training curriculum
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian Institution, OpenRefine Ecology

**Agenda:**

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
- Staffing changes and the maintainer community (Toby)
    - [Blog post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/12/saying-farewell-to-seven-carpentries-core-team-members/)
    - Curriculum team and supporting maintainer community remain very high priorities for core team - including onboarding new maintainers, maintainer meetings, and support for issues
    - Curriculum advisory committee support will be significantly reduced
        - Core team will keep maintainers updates as to whether CAC exists for lessons and any changes in workflows for dealing with difficult issues
    - What about workbench development?
        - Capacity for feature development will be minimal and community-based
        - Managing problems/issues will continue
        - New workbench leads on core team are Erin Becker and Rob Davey but both have lots going on

### 3. Other Questions & Topics
- [CFP for Lesson Proposals](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info/cfp) (UCLA/IMLS Open Science for Librarians)
- Subcommunity coworking [interest gauge](https://forms.gle/zgvQZ53wGPWi9f6K9) - took a few minutes to complete this
- Question about removing outdated files in [SWC lesson](https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-inflammation) (.mailmap and AUTHORS files)
    - Toby: this has been known to be a mess for a while; would be nice to introduce cff support to standardize lesson publications but not ready yet
    - ultimately, deleting these files won't cause any trouble
    - Toby will try to take to curriculum team to consider documenting standardized approach at some point

### 4. Special topic: Pre/post issue discussion
- *This month, we're provide some time to share either about how you successfully resolved a difficult issue/PR/project or one that poses an ongoing challenge (and maybe get some feedback on fruitful approaches to consider)*
- Summaries of issues/PRs to discuss
    - [Link formatting](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1490) (use of `here` vs visible link vs informative text) still not fully resolved
        - Success: adding hyperlinks to plain text links
        - In progress: best way to support screen reader accessibility and etherpad copy/paste
        -  with minimal clutter
    - General cleaning of the repo as a way to get familiar with the structure and the contents:
        - Success: identified some svgs that haven't been used in the past 7 years
        - In progress: identify branches that can be safely removed vs branches that are severely out of sync but may still contain valuable changes.
    - Merging from a fork but contents had changed too much in both ([Issue 251](https://github.com/datacarpentry/OpenRefine-ecology-lesson/issues/251))
    - Simple, but annoying:
        - Feature added - https://github.com/datacarpentry/OpenRefine-ecology-lesson/issues/245
        - Feature removed - https://github.com/datacarpentry/OpenRefine-ecology-lesson/issues/269
    - When to move from R markdown to Quarto
        - needs coordinated response across all
        - similar to what happened with updating to SSH in Git lessons
        - may be harder to do these major processes with cuts to core team
    - on bigger question of version #s
        - helpful to include discussion of choosing
        - cognitive load that comes with deprecation warnings, how do we find balance between minimising these kinds of warnings and providing content that will work for everyone's setup
        - This issue https://github.com/swcarpentry/git-novice/issues/691 is a good example of this problem: back in 2019 the community agreed that it was too early to talk about `git switch` and `git restore` in the SWC lesson. Now the change is well overdue - when was the right point to make that change? And how could we have ensured it happened at that point?
    
### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
- Next meeting January 17th
- Topic requests
    - Project management with Git milestones and projects 
    - Managing new software versions in lessons
    - Idea to have pre/post as frequent or standing item
