## Monthly Maintainers' Meeting, October 18, 2023

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, DC Image Processing
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Genomics Organization
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine
- Martino Sorbaro (he/him), SWC git

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Jennifer Stubbs (she/her), librarian, LC-OpenRefine
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries
- Elizabeth "Lisa" McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, LC-Overview, LC-Git
- Ulf Schiller (he/him), University of Delaware, DC Image Processing
-  Jamie Jamison (she/her), University of California, Los angeles, lc-bash
- Alan Williams (he/him), LSUHSC-NOLA
- Kat Koziar, University of California, Riverside, SWC git-novice
- James Foster (he/him), CSIRO, Australia, DC - SQL for ecologists
- Kristi Liu, (she/her) UC Santa Barbara, Incubator-Reproducibility/Quarto
- Sehrish Kanwal (she/her), Melbourne Australia, R-novice and Genomics curriculum
- Mariana Gomez (she/her), Ensenada, Mexico, git-novice-es


Agenda:

### 1. Introductions (5 min)



### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

* Please complete the Community Survey if you have not already done so (5 mins)
    * https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdpUX5zsStvfVSWCEokWTCpEd2j37y7_4zyWEBOTN9YPZdbtg/viewform?usp=sf_link
* Maintainer Community Lead:
    * We are preparing to onboard somebody into the role, but will need a bit more time before we can announce them and they can get started.
* GitHub Skill-ups for Maintainers:
    * Want to join as a learner? There is one more session scheduled for next week, 13:00 UTC on Thursday 26th October: https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023
    * Reminder: teaches issue triage/labelling, pull request reviews, fixing merge conflicts, using GitHub Web Editor
    * Sessions have gone well so far, receiving good feedback.
    * Curriculum available: https://carpentries.github.io/github-skill-up-maintainers/
        * includes instructions for creating example repositories automatically: https://carpentries.github.io/github-skill-up-maintainers/instructor/example_repo_setup.html
    * You are welcome to use the materials to run your own skill-ups for the community
    * Contact Toby if you would like a co-host or have questions while preparing
    


### 3. Other Questions & Topics
 
* Ideas for things it would be helpful to learn/practice in a skill-up?
    * Debugging lesson build failures +++++
    * What are the checks doing on PRs?++++ :+1:
    * Building lessons locally :+1: ++++
    * Maintainer-Maintainer interaction & coordination ++++
    * Issue "shaping"/curation/triage: adjusting/rewriting issue title and content to make it more actionable, tagging +++
    * Learning Workbench? :+1:+++++ :+1:
    * Could we do a co-working? Workshoping working on some difficult issues? ++++++
    * Some basic understanding of "github-actions"  :+1:+++++++

Kat: There is a [development branch](https://github.com/swcarpentry/git-novice/tree/ssh-adv) that has not been transfered over to workbench. Zhian asked to let him know so that he could help us. 

Kat: Workbench creates additional branches whenever someone puts in a PR. The branch goes away when it is resolved, but that threw me. Before there were some old versioning branches and gh-pages and the development branches and that worked well but not it's difficult to find and i don't like this - cluttered. 

    
Lisa: Don't understand the way all the things are connected. Wondering if links.md - has some built in sugar syntax that is going to navigate to different parts of your repo. Don't know - lost. 
https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/lc-git/issues/154 

James: Think about calling out for community maintainers for workbench.

James: definition box - UI makes you rethink how the content flows because of the visual delineation

Lisa: Takes longer to build the lesson out to the web than had been used to with styles. A few minutes. (+1 from Kristi)

Erin: <strike>Doing accessibility tests which is why its taking more time</strike>

Zhian: The accessibility tests are _not_ why it takes longer. In terms of the build process,
the accessibility tests are actually the fastest process.The reason that it's slower than it used to take is purely historical.
When GitHub launched GitHub pages, it used Jekyll behind the scenes because it was the default engine that they used for their own documentation.
  This was a kind of vendor lock-in that forced everyone to either render their own HTML or use Jekyll. In the past, before Continuous Integration
  was easier to set up, SoftwareCarpentry websites were manually rendered to HTML on a local computer and then pushed up to the gh-pages branch of a
  repository for deployment. In 2015, the decision to use Jekyll was implemented because that was the _only_ way to dynamically render Markdown to HTML.
  The advantage of speed came at the cost of a markdown format (kramdown) that was vastly dissimilar to the format that was widely used (commonmark) and
  a complex local setup. Because GitHub's machines were _precisely configured for Jekyll_, there was no need to set everything up every time the lesson
  was built. Because we no longer use Jekyll, we have to incur the cost of setting up GitHub's machines with The Workbench. We use caching as much as
  possible, but there are always some roadblocks that will be overcome later in terms of speed. It may seem like a disadvantage to do it this way, but
  if for some reason in the future, GitHub decides to adopt a user-hostile business model that prevents us from freely distributing these lessons, having
  this process set up and understood will allow us to more easily migrate to another platform. 

+5 for the workshop skillup

Ulf: +1 to local building skill up

Ult + Lisa : Not being able to use homebrew to do the workbench setup might be a hard problem for people using work computers and who need tech support.

Martino: so far I have not seen any common strategy among Maintainers on a lesson. In the beginning it felt a bit strange not to have any kind of orientation about how the Maintainers on the lesson interact, coordinate their maintenance work.

Ben: I noticed in the openrefine repo, most issues are mine now, I opened them. But I realised that some are too large, too undefined, to be workable by anyone else. How to make issues ready for others to come and pick up.

How do we make sure the instructor community engages more on Github and participates to lesson development?
    * Martino: should we survey them asking why they don't participate?
    * Ben: put in instructor notes that a discussion is happening
    * Martino: also call for opinions on Slack

### 4. For next meeting (5 min)

A discussion about what Maintainers can do to make issues actionable for contributors ("Issue Shaping/Curation"), and what are the "quick wins" that Maintainers can try to do even if they do not have a lot of time to devote to the task.

"actionable for contributors" or should it be "actionable for maintainers"

Lisa: This sounds like a good topic!

Note to all that [GitHub Universe](https://githubuniverse.com/) is being held 8-9 November. Conference session recordings will be available afterwards 
on [GitHub's YouTube page](https://www.youtube.com/@GitHub/playlists).

---
