
## Monthly Maintainers' Meeting, January 17, 2024

-----

## 2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- **Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson**
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech & Maintainers Community Lead, Instructor Training
- Jennifer Stubbs (she/her, Bradley University, IL-USA, LC-OR
- Irene Ramos (she/her), UNAM, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Workbench
- Elizabeth (Lisa) McAulay (she/her), Univeristy of California Los Angeles, Library Carpentry Git and Library Carpentry Overview
- Sehrish Kanwal (she/her), University of Melbourne, r-novice-gapminder, Genomics Curriculum

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
- Update on status of Curriculum Advisory Committees
    - CACs will have less central support than in the past. Astronomy and Social Sciences may discontinue, but all others will continue. 
    - [Rubric](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/lesson_development/cac-consult-rubric.html) for what to do if you don't have a CAC (this will be updated soon)
- Lesson infrastructure maintenance
    - Zhian Kamvar (@zkamvar) has now left the Core Team. Questions and support requests should be directed at Erin Becker and/or Rob Davey.
        - Erin and Rob are meeting weekly and watching slack to ensure workbench package issues are dealt with
    - Please keep posting to #workbench Slack channel, opening issues and discussions on https://github.com/carpentries/workbench
- Maintainer Onboarding planned for March 2024
- Watch for maintainer survey this month, followed by new maintainer recruitment
- Maintainer coordinated co-working sessions organized around lessons / topics
- Updated internationalization/translation tools
    - #internationalisation on Slack
- 
### 3. Other Questions & Topics
- Re genomics CAC someone was invited last year then went on leave - Erin will follow up with Toby (who coordinates CACs)

### 4. Special topic: GitHub project management tools (boards, milestones, etc.)
- https://github.com/datacarpentry/image-processing/projects/1
- https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-development-training/milestone/4?closed=1
- Lisa has had problem getting permissions correct to create projects/milestones in Carpentries curricula
    - Jennifer's note: in your repo: add project. In Project create it.  Then back to issues in repo: in each issue add the project, similar to a tag from the right column.  In PRs, can add the project's tag inside each PR from the right column again.
    - You need to be on the organization it's created in (and a repo you have write access to)
- Where is setup file: in workbench index.md is base of home page.  The workbench automatically looks that up in the learner's directory.
    - `index.md` is homepage but automatically pulls `learners/setup.md`
- Let's use Slack #maintainers to help each other figure out projects/boards as we try

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
- Next meeting February 21st
    - maintainer survey results plus possibly something else

-----

## 1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting): 
- **Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson**
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Maintainer Community Lead, Instructor Training
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, DC Image Processing & Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Olav Vahtras (he/him), KTH Stockholm, Python gapminder lesson
- Dimitrios Theodorakis (he/him), UK Met Office, Intro to Fortran
- Alber Sánchez (he/him), National Institute for Space Research in Brazil, Intro to R for Geospatial data
- Johanna Bayer (she/her), Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Intro to R for Geospatial data, Social Sciences Workshop
- Martino Sorbaro (he/him), SWC git

### 1. Introductions (5 min)

### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
- Update on status of Curriculum Advisory Committees
    - CACs will not have liaisons from core/curriculum team
    - No new recruitment this year (some CACs may cease to exist)
    - Core team will try to communicate to maintainers whether or not there is an active CAC
    - https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/lesson_development/cac-consult-rubric.html - Toby is preparing an updated version of this document to provide guidance to Maintainers who find themselves without a CAC
    - Dimitrios: does this apply to Incubator lessons as well?
        - Toby: no these are only applicable to official (DC, LC, SWC) lessons
    - Martino: what experience have others had with CACs so far?
        - Jake: I have not had much interaction with Genomics CAC. I think I have tagged them once or twice but do not recall receiving much response.
        - Alber: also not much interaction but I have been mostly working through old issues
        - Nathaniel: I was a member of the DC Social Sciences CAC, we were consulted on some issues e.g. around outdated data
        - Toby: I have also observed CACs making recommendations, but those not being picked up by contributors who translate them into changes on the lesson(s)
        - Martino: I ask as a member of the SWC Governance Committee. We are considering absorbing SWC CAC into our committee, taking on CAC's duties. We could then decide on some of the changes that need to happen on curriculum (new lessons, changes to existing lessons, etc). Any objections, concerns?
        - Jake: A question. Within DC, how do you ensure that a single committee can cover all of range of DC curricula, areas of expertise
        - Martino: this would only affect SWC.
- Lesson infrastructure maintenance
    - Zhian Kamvar (@zkamvar) has now left the Core Team. Questions and support requests should be directed at Erin Becker (@ErinBecker) and/or Rob Davey (@froggleston).
    - Please keep posting to #workbench Slack channel, opening issues and discussions on https://github.com/carpentries/workbench
- Maintainer Onboarding planned for March 2024
    - Watch for maintainer survey this month, followed by new maintainer recruitment
    - Maintainer opt-in survey - end of January
    - Call for new Maintainers will go out February - please encourage people in your networks who would be a good fit for the role. Personalised invitations are the most effective way to convince people to get involved
    - Onboarding to take place in March
        - Will also have accompanying skill-ups that are open to anyone (https://carpentries.github.io/github-skill-up-maintainers/)
- Updated internationalization/translation tools
    - Toby: The work that Joel has done on CrowdIn and internationalisation is incredible
    - Join #internationalisation channel in Slack to learn about implementing internationalization and connecting to workbench
    - Current non-English lessons include Japanese, Spanish, and Ukrainian

### 3. Other Questions & Topics

- Toby: what was the response from Maintainers about coworking sessions?
    - Nathaniel: a handful fo responses. People largely interested in coworking around specific lessons, curricula, topics/tools/domains, etc. Planning to include a question in the opt-in survey to gauge interest in such coworking sessions, then try to organise/facilitate some coworking sessions based on that.

### 4. Special topic: GitHub project management tools (boards, milestones, etc.) (with Toby)
- Project boards
    - kanban style
    - columns of tasks
    - can set up automation to move into columns when tagged in issue/PR then automatically move to done when merged
    - can set up roles
    - newer version of project boards works better with multi-repository projects (multiple within an organization)
        - workbench is an example of this
    - most useful with complex multi-person projects - can be a fair deal of work
- milestones
    - simpler than project boards
    - subset of issues
    - can set due dates on milestones
    - lighter weight
    - allows issue labels
- Johanna: I have used project boards and find it really useful how you can include issues from all over GitHub. Also use Google Keep a lot, 
- Olav: we have used Trello, as not aware that GitHub provided similar functionality. Have also been trying out Asana. 
- Toby: we use Asana in the Carpentries Team as well, for tasks and projects that are not specific to GitHub
- Jake: I use Asana on and off

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
- Next meeting February 21st
-----