# Monthly Maintainer's Meeting Notes - 20 November 2024

## Attending

- Toby Hodges, The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Hugo Gruson, data.org, R Novice Inflammation (SWC)
- Nathaniel Porter, Virginia Tech Libraries & Carpentries Maintainer Community Lead, instructor training
- Kristi Liu, UCSB Library, Intro Geospatial (DC) 
- Irene Ramos, UNAM/OLS, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Jose Nino-Muriel, UCSB Library, socsci-spreadsheets
- Jon Jablonski, UCSB, raster and vector with r
- James Foster, CSIRO, SQL Ecology (DC)
- Carlos Rodrigues, CSIRO, Python Ecology
- Erin Graham (she/her), James Cook University, SwC git
- Jennifer Stubbs

## 1. Icebreaker (5 min)

**what do you most often have to go searching for as you work on maintaining lessons?** It could be things to do with Git, specific maintanance guidelines, repositories, or whatever.*

* how to define co-authors on a commit +1
* git blame view of pages on GitHub, to better understand context for why certain design decisions were made
* outdated vs new things. so far, jon and I havent figured out the terra version of stacking rasters (geospatial) +1
    * https://github.com/datacarpentry/organization-geospatial/issues/88
    * https://github.com/datacarpentry/r-raster-vector-geospatial/issues/363
* I search for similar content in other related lessons, for example the Library Carpentry and Ecology versions of Tidy Data with Spreadsheets +1
* Duplicate discussions in issues +2 +1
* Git commands! Which is ironic because that's the lesson I help maintain. I just don't use frequently enough :-(  +1

## 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

* [Website](https://carpentries.org/) & handbook relaunch (more on this later)
    * website was relaunched this week
    * handbook relaunch coming 9 December
    * Curriculum Development Handbook will (finally) be retired on that date too
        * ...only 11.25 months late!
    * Q: would it be valuable to look for links to carpentries.org domain on our lessons?
        * That would be great, if you have time
* Infrastructure updates
    * Packages
        * pegboard 0.7.7
        * varnish 1.0.5
        * sandpaper 0.16.10
    * Key features:
        * Font support for Ukrainian (and other languages) has been improved by moving from Mulish Latin to Mulish Regular
        * Ability to style lesson fonts by changing one SASS CSS variable instead of many different stylesheets
        * Add support for the "caution" callout type
        * Improve the styling of checklists
        * Support lessons having their own favicons, using the same mechanisms to add custom logos

## 3. General Information

* [New accessibility requirements](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/24/2024-07758/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-disability-accessibility-of-web-information-and-services-of-state) for US gov't institutions rule now formalized (will be enforced starting Apr 2026) 

## 4. Special discussion 

* Hide and seek: let's find where maintainer-related information is on the website now!
    * We noticed that the link was broken to the Maintainer Handbook on https://carpentries.org/community/maintainers/. This is likely due to the current limbo period before the new handbook is released. I opened a PR to implement a temporary fix at https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/pull/299
    * Could column headers in homepage footers be formatted somewhat differently from links so it's easy to tell they're not links (e.g. "About Us")
        * Related: the footers should use the same language across sites (DC uses "About the Carpentries", etc)
    * TOC label on https://carpentries.org/search/ doesn't link to anything
    * New lesson search "seems" like it doesn't return results (though it actually does) if you have large text or low resolution because of large amount of text above the results
    * lesson program and carpentries homepages don't have "edit on Github" links
    * datacarpentries.org - GitHub page: https://github.com/datacarpentry/datacarpentry.org
    * Most links at the bottom of https://datacarpentry.org/ are missing "/" so they don't work (footers that lead back to main Carpentries website)-- was this already pointed out?
        * Added PR: https://github.com/datacarpentry/datacarpentry.org/pull/59
        * Same with Lessons links at the bottom of DC and Collaborative Lesson Development Training - showing 'This site can’t be reached'
        * DC About Us 'Subscribe to our Newsletter' Page Not Found

* Is there anything that seems missing or hard to track down?
    * When should we do releases?
        * Toby: releases should not be done at the moment. Something the Curriculum Team will coordinate, planning to begin middle of 2025 after some further changes to the website build workflows and rollout of CFFs across all lesson repositories.
    * Should maintainers add a CITATION.cff in their existing lessons?
        * Toby: no, this is not necessary at this time. This was implemented for new lessons, and in preparation for upcoming changes. Existing lessons can keep relying on the existing CITATION file for now.

## 5. Other issues raised

* Request via Slack for review (SWC Python Inflammation) - [Pull Request](https://github.com/swcarpentry/python-novice-inflammation/pull/1085) and [Issue](https://github.com/swcarpentry/python-novice-inflammation/issues/1084)
    * Summary:
        * Issue: Assertion might need to be addressed differently + TDD is not well suitable for (an introductory) defensive programming. 
        * PR presents considerable changes in the episode: more explanations and different examples in assertions, and TDD is totally out.
    * Reviewed by:
        - martinosorb (member of the CAC)
        - Chillenzer (no CAC member)
        - quirksahern (As a member of the SWC LPGC (now incorporating the CAC), supports PR
    * Toby: We talked about this issue extensively at CarpentryConnect Heidelberg last week. Martino, Samantha, and Annajiat (the SWC Governors) will meet to discuss this soon, and make a formal recommendation.

## For next meeting
**Wednesday, 18 December**

* Topic ideas?
    * Toby: I am drafting some "social norms" documentation, describing for example how long we should leave something half-done before "hijacking" it.
        * use cases: when somebody opens an issue, or responds to one, saying that they will create a PR to fix it, then never opens the PR; or when somebody opens a PR, is asked by maintainer(s) for some minor changes, then becomes unresponsive.
        * Trying to define:
            * how long to wait?
            * logistically, how to handle this?
            * how to communicate to other community members that a contribution is now "up for grabs"
            * how to appropriately credit somebody for their part of a contribution then taken over by maintainers/somebody else (co-authoring commits, etc)
        * This would potentially dovetail nicely with some automation e.g. a bot that automatically posts to/labels/closes issues and PRs that have been dormant for a while
        * I plan to bring a draft of this to Maintainers for comment in Dec or Jan.
