## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 2024-05-15

### 1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

* Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries, maintaining Collaborative Lesson Development Training, Instructor Training, and DC Image Processing
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him/his), Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, US, Maintainer Community Lead & Instructor Training
* Olav Vahtras (he/him/his), KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden. Maintining python-novice-gapminder
* Jake

### 2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting):

* Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Maintaining The Carpentries Workbench
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him/his), Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, US, Maintainer Community Lead & Instructor Training
* 

## Agenda

### 1. Icebreaker
*What was the most unexpected or surprising thing about the experience of being a maintainer?*

- Jake: How little work there was to do
- Toby: How small but seemingly (passively) unbridgable the gap is between needing help with issues  and "recruiting" help from the community to fix them
- Nathaniel: How infrequenty I need to actually use Git locally and how easy it is to make progress in little chunks
- Olav: easier than I thought

### 2. Updates from The Carpentries team
- Search bar (that didn't work) removed and replaced with button suggesting using `Find` in all-in-one page
    - Nathaniel: notice it currently goes to learner all-in-one even from instructor page (Toby will open issue)
- Working on introducing citation file format files in lesson repositories
    - still a few months out
    - will require updates/discussion on when/how to update author lists
    - Toby also working with [cff2pages](https://github.com/University-of-Potsdam-MM/cff2pages) developer to introduce md formatted option to easily convert citation file to html
- dark mode added for next sandpaper release (will automatically be available)
- maintainer onboarding this week through early June; introductions will go out mid-June

### 3. Topics for discussion

- Major updates to curriculum, and how to make them happen
    - Curriculum Advisors can determine a plan for what updates are necessary, and publicise that
    - They should make sure Maintainers are onboard with that and prepared for it.
    - But it needs coordinated community input to actually make the changes! CAC and Maintainers can act in advisory capacity and get more involved if they want to. This is the part that is not well figured out. Toby had hoped to devote Curriculum Team time to that this year, but capacity is reduced and this wasn't possible. He would still be able to support comms and planning around these kinds of projects though.
- How can we help integrate new maintainers in our lessons and start them off on the right foot?
    - Jake: it was hard to get a meeting/connect with any existing maintainers when starting
        - later did get email introducing new and existing maintainers but still not more than that
        - is there a way to coordinate meetings between existing and new maintainers
            - may be able to include in tip sheet on maintainer communication (along with tips for setting up co-working/meetups, etc.)
            - how to create slack channels for lessons etc (and private for maintainers vs public for lesson in general)
        - Toby: we consistently hear on surveys that it would be nice to have more communication with maintainers
        - variability in what ways people work etc -> probably don't need to create all the channels up front (but can provide ideas/guides/nudges in welcome email)
        - maybe also offer support (in welcome) if you want help setting up communication
    - Toby: new maintainers often inherit a long list of Issues/PRs; maybe we can offer something like "we are aware that lessons needing new maintainers can build a backlog of unprocessed contributions from the community; please let us know if you'd like support dealing with these..."
        - it can also be hard as new maintainer to feel empowered/confident to resolve PRs with long histories or from years ago without being sure you know the past backchannel discussions etc
        - *continuity of practice* backchannels should be less of an issue IF people follow best practices and add comments/thoughts to Git, even if some discussions initially take place on slack/email/meetings -> if it doesn't get on Git, it may never matter
    - 
