## Maintainer Meeting, 20 March, 2024

### 1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
    - Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Maintainer Community Lead and Virgina Tech, Instructor Training
    - Kaitlin Newson (she/her), ACENET, lc-shell
    - Mariana Gomez (she/her), CICESE, git-novice-es
    * Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training & DC Image Processing with Python
    * Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, genomics-organization
    * Kevin French (he/him), GMILCS, Inc. Introduction to working with data (RegEx)
    * Julika Mimkes (she/her), SUB Göttingen, Germany, SQL-LC

### 2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
    - Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Maintainer Community Lead and Virginia Tech, Instructor Training
    - Jennifer Stubbs (she/her), LC-OpenRefine
    - Erin Becker (she/her), Workbench
    - Lisa McAulay (she/her), UCLA Library, LC-Overview, LC-Git, 
    - Kristi Liu (she/her), UCSB Library, 
    - James Foster (he/him), CSIRO, SQL for Ecologists

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)
- Icebreaker: what sound or smell is typical where you are this time of year?

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)
* Maintainer Opt-in Survey Results & Prepping for Maintainer Onboarding
    * High response rate and most people staying on
    * High need core lessons for new onboarding
        * DC: Astronomy
        * DC: Ecology (esp. R - with new redesign just adopted)
    * Blog post and call for new maintainers to onboard going out this week (20 or 21 March)
        * DC: Genomics data wrangling and organization
        * DC: Social Science spreadsheets and openrefine
        * LC: Spreadsheets
    * Onboarding
        * Late April onboarding plus GitHub skill-ups
    * To coincide with Onboarding, we will be trying to start scheduling Maintainer coworking sessions for R & Python lessons, and sharing guidance for individual Maintainer teams to coordinate coworking calls/meetings amongst themselves.
    * How to help orientate new Maintainers into the lesson team?
        * Jake: I find email introduction works fine.
        * Kevin: recently met with co-Maintainer. Tried to establish norms. Can I reach out  on Slack to ask for PR reviews
            * Jake: +1
            * Kaitlin: +1
    * Jake: question about surveys more generally. Google Forms usually used for surveys: at form setup, can specifiy that form should email responses to the person who filled it in, so they can check later if they have done it. Toby will feedback to whole Core Team.
    * Jake: I remember when I was onboarded I was not clear on how much authority I had to merge other peoples' PRs. Is my approval enough, or should I wait for a second opinion.
    * Kaitlin: Maybe there could be maintainers open to reviewing other lessons
        * Maybe add a team of volunteers that can be tagged on Git (and pick what makes more sense for their experience)
        * Slack works too, but a step removed (and might take more channels)
        * For now, using #maintainers on Slack is easiest
    * Toby: If you need more help midyear, don't wait for next main round - reach out to curriculum team about getting additional maintainers
* Recent lesson infrastructure updates & how to trigger lesson builds
    * A recent update to R (version 4.3 release) exposed a bug in pegboard (one of the Workbench components), causing all lesson builds to fail. Fixed in a recent release of pegboard.
    * new versions of sandpaper and varnish (two other Workbench components) also released recently
    * Lesson builds on GitHub always use the most-recently released version of the Workbench packages
    * Lessons are re-built every time a commit is added to `main` branch, and weekly via a scheduled build (currently Monday nights Euro time)
    * You can manually trigger a re-build via the Actions tab on your lesson repository
    * Note on fix for ALL CAPS callouts/notes
        * Should push automatically next time lesson is built (automatically when updated or trigger in actions)
* Workbench feature development updates
    * Search bar functionality -- many thanks to the Maintainers who tested this and contributed feedback!
    * Tab groupsets
    * A reminder that Core Team time to devote to new features is very limited, but please keep making contributions!
* Supporting/endorsing Maintainer contributions
    * Received a request for letter of support/similar to advocate for the value and impact of time spent contributing to The Carpentries as a Maintainer. If we create something describing this in general, would it be helpful for wider subset of Maintainer community? If so, where should we put it and in what form, so that you can find it and adapt/re-use it?
        * In specific situation, providing letter of support/description
        * More general question is whether/how to provide something (model statement/letter, etc.) anyone can use
            * Could be useful
            * Kevin: this also supports understanding how people learn
            * Jake: could Slack/topicbox posts occasionally be used to share something like this if we want it to be private?
            * Toby: ideal (eventual) goal would be automated maintainer impact report - activity on your lesson in updates, as well as in terms of times taught/pageviews/etc

#### 3. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

Nathaniel: One thing we heard consistently from survey responses, etc is that lessons usually do not have one Maintainer who takes the lead. That is by design to a certain extent, but curious to know what support you all might like to have for that?
Kevin: I always appreciated someone taking the lead and poking me from time to time. 
Jake: Worry about erosion/attrition as people nomunally leading on a lesson disappear without letting anyone know they are stepping away
