# Maintainer Meeting Notes: 18 September, 2024

## Attending

- *Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson*
- Nathaniel Porter, he/him, Virginia Tech, Instructor Training
- Kristi Liu, she/her, UC Santa Barbara, Geospatial Intro 
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Genomics Project Organization
- Marijane White (she/they), Oregon Health & Science University, openrefine-socialsci
- Irene (she/her), UNAM / OLS, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Erin Graham (she/her), James Cook University, SwC git
- Kevin French (he, him, his), GMILCS, Inc. LC-Intro. to Data
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Instructor Training, Maintainer Community Lead
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries, Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Martino Sorbaro (he/him), git-novice
- James Foster, CSIRO, DC SQL-ecology-lesson
- Olav Vahtras (he/him), python-novice-gapminder

## 1. Introductions (5 min)

**If there was one big thing you could change about your lesson (overhaul, lesson-wide change, etc) what would it be?

* Git: Add more advanced material (branches, collaboration, etc.), reorganizing in two separate lessons if necessary. Alternatively, separate into git basics and GitHub+collaborating.
* More diagrams and other visual aids: like Instructor Training, CLDT is a very "discussion-based" curriculum and we really need some elegant visualisations/figures to break up the text and illustrate some of the more conceptal elements.
* LC-Intro. to Data: I'd like to show how RegEx can be used day-to-day for simple projects.  The barrier is that it is an intro class and RegEx has to be used in something like Python.
* SQL-ecology (James): Change the IDE software for working with the database. Related - get more visualisation of the database structure into the lesson.
* (meeting 2)
* Instructor Trainer Training: Would be nice if someone magically wrote all of the learning objectives and keypoints. :joy_cat: 
* OpenRefine-SocialSci: I would make the beginning of the lesson more explicit about introducing the OpenRefine UI, in particular the menus at the top of each column.
* Geospatial-raster/vector: oof. length of the workshop. Probably the content from episodie 8 - 13 can be its own separate lesson. Big issue is to change the code to new terra/sf packages and use a smaller dataset, harvard test forest is cool but...  (https://github.com/datacarpentry/r-raster-vector-geospatial)
* Python for Ecology in Spanish: Update the lesson to follow the new R for Ecology  (if you do, consider using Crowdin)
    * Genomics Project Organization: The bit about downloading data from SRA feels like a lot of extraneous mental load and casual glossing over of confusing things. Properly explaining the SRA database would require its own episode (at least) and feels really out of scope for this lesson. I would just remove this from the episode entirely, except to point at it and say that it's a place to get sequences, like we do with ENA.

[Guide to translations with the Carpentries](https://hackmd.io/@joelnitta/SkCSC6ZNT )

## 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

* Some new releases of lesson infrastructure (reminder: always accept the PRs from carpentries-bot)
    * Question: how can we see what's actually being changed with the version bumps etc?
        * [workbench channel on Slack](https://carpentries.slack.com/archives/C03DEQ5T2DA)
            * Rob will typically post a summary of changes here when a new release is made of any of the infrastructure components
        * Can find actions (and updates to them) in https://github.com/carpentries/actions/
        * the individual Workbench components:
            * sandpaper: https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/
                * [NEWS file](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/blob/main/NEWS.md)
            * pegboard: https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/
                * [NEWS file](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/blob/main/NEWS.md)
            * varnish: https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/
                * [NEWS file](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/blob/main/NEWS.md)

## 3. General Information


## 4. Special discussion (with Martino Sorbano) - Implementing larger changes in lessons

- (A case study of recent *Software Carpentry: Version Control with Git* updates)
- Change of dracula/wolfman story to recipes example
    - Why?
        - some people didn't find it relatable or culturally relevant
        - can be hard to teach
        - longstanding discussion
    - How?
        - looked into alternatives and was relatively easy because some people already made forks with different examples
        - first step: discuss with group of maintainers then contact creator of recipes version (David Perez-Suarez at UCL) to ask if OK using that version
        - check for any related necessary changes (including forks ahead/behind)
        - pull request opened here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/git-novice/pull/1003
        - how to implement and challenges
            - check for concerns, get approval for all relevant people (David as the original author of the modified content, other Maintainers of the lesson, CAC/Governance Committee)
            - check with other-language maintainers (Spanish) - which was different enough they said don't worry about this
            - Inform community effectively in advance of pending changes
- another change was made recently (maybe could have been announced/implemented together) - replace checkout with restore and switch
    - bring up to date with newer versions of gits
    - simplify mental models for new Git users
    - avoid detached head state (and scary words)
    - Toby: we should put an instructor note about the changes, especially since older versions of Git don't have all the features

* What to do if your lesson has other language versions? 
    * eg. checkout --> switch change wasn't run by the Spanish-language maintainers? This is something that would have benefited from cross-conversation
    * If and how cross-conversation is needed for major changes across language versions depends on how translation is set up and maintained (eg, is it in Crowdin)

## 5. Other issues raised

- Follow up on previous meetings re: closing old issues
    - Feel empowered to close them (even if they predate your involvment)
    - If it's stale and no longer applicable, please close
    - Anything else that doesn't seem like it will get addressed, feel able to close (though you may want to put in a comment and tag the submitter or others in the discussion to let them know first)
    - Tricky is when people have good idea that haven't gotten responses
        -can say there's been no movement in length of time and planning to close; leave door open for people to chime in and ask to reopen
            - [sample](https://github.com/datacarpentry/R-ecology-lesson/issues/814)
    
- Would it be helpful to have some kind of label etc for "bigger"  issues/PRs?
    - [list of existing tags](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/github_labels.html)
- Some of it is also communications/stakeholder management but also need to help people understand process
    - for example, should you fork repo and make one huge PR vs a bunch of little ones, etc
    - where to go on Slack/mailing list to look for people to help out
    - often someone's also said at some point "i'm going to work on this" but it's been a while

- when/how would we bundle issues/PRs together or work on a bunch of related issues?
    - A handbook page describing the standard issue labels: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/github_labels.html
    - You are also welcome to add your own, but maybe sensible to document somewhere how you are using those (could be good content for your lesson's `CONTRIBUTING.md`)

- Projects as a way of managing major change
    - Works like a kanban board (like Trello, etc) that also interacts with issues/PRs
    - To create project, go to `projects` tab at top and create a new project (if you don't have access and are a maintainer, contact Erin or Toby for help)

## For next meeting
**Wednesday, 16 October**

* Send topics or we'll have an issue/PR working day where we can ask each other for help/advice on ones we're finding tricky
