## Monthly Maintainers' Meeting, Feb 21, 2024

### Attending: 
- **Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson**
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Maintainer Community Lead, Instructor Training
- Jamie Jamison (she/her). UCLA, lc-shell
- Jon Jablonski (he.him) UCSanta Barbara, curious
- David Palmquist (he/him), CSU FUllerton, ecology / humanities
- Elizabeth (Lisa) McAulay (she/her), UCLA, lc-overview, lc-git
- Kristi Liu (she/her), UCSB, pseudo maintainer for Reproducible Publications

### 1. Welcome (5 min)


### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)
- Maintainer opt-in survey
    - Timing Status
        - Survey closes on 2024-02-23
            - Please fill it out, if you haven't. Nathaniel and/or Core Team will be contacting people individually if you haven't already.
        - Nathaniel and Core team
        - Early March - End of March - call for volunteers for open slots
        - Then the new maintainer onboarding will be scheduled
        - The Carpentries is seeking more help for the Carpentries Lab work. See blog entry: https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/02/support-curriculum-community-2024/ 
    - Completion status
        - all but 8 of respondents have said "yes" I want to continue
- Maintainer recruiting and onboarding
- Other updates


### 3. Other Questions & Topics (10 min)
- Time for pre/post discussion of sticky situations
    - how do you turn an issue into a pull request?
        - There's no magic here. You would need to edit the code and create a pull request. You can add a note / comment like "Resolves #23" and then when you merge the pull request, Github will automatically close the issue. (But important to note, you have to do the work of editing the code because an issue is not editing the code.)
    - How do you ask for CAC involvement?
        - You can assign the CAC to the issue. And you could also use a specific comment to Toby (Core Team) that you'd like CAC involvement.
        - The Maintainer onboarding training gives guidance on how to do this. See https://carpentries.github.io/maintainer-onboarding/04-communicate-advisors.html 
    -  lesson number in episode pane is sometimes off from browser and people are raising it (example: https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/python-humanities-lesson/ and https://datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/00-before-we-start.html)
        -  is there a system-wide solution?
        -  Maybe encourage each group of maintainers to check for hard-coded lesson numbers and then make changes?
        -  May need to work with infrastructure or curriculum to find way to rebuild


### 4. Special Topic: Add your experience to maintainer onboarding (25 minutes)
- [Maintainer onboarding](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-onboarding) will be used soon for new maintainers
- What else would be helpful to include in the onboarding (based on your experience)? (5 minute discussion)
- Let's draft some improvements now! (15 minute independent work with options to ask for feedback in meeting)
- Jennifer Stubbs added [PR 93](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-onboarding/pull/93) to add Nathaniel Porter and remove Vini and Zhian in episode 3 of maintainer onboarding.
- Add [instructor notes](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/transition-guide.html#instructor-notes) or [callouts](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/transition-guide.html#callout-blocks) with advice for learners
- Suggest improvements to core lesson materials
- Debrief

### 5. For next meeting (5 min)
- Next meeting March 20
    - Theme: helping new maintainers succeed from the start
