## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, 2024-04-17

### 1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Toby Hodges, Carpentries Team + DC Image & Collaborative Lesson Development Training
- Jake Szamosi, DC Genomics Organisation
- Olav Vahtras, KTH Stockholm

### 2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), affiliation, lesson
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Workbench
- Kevin French (he/him), GMILCS, Inc., Library Carpentry Introduction to Working with Data. 
- Irene Ramos (she/her), UNAM/OLS, Python in Ecology Lesson in Spanish.

### Agenda:

#### Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

- Update on Maintainer Onboarding
    - We received a good number of applications (35) for Maintainer Onboarding, with many encouraging responses
    - Good coverage for almost all of the lessons most in need of more Maintainers
    - We will begin scheduling Onboarding sessions, and expect to introduce you to new Maintainers before the next monthly meeting (15 May). (Slight delay in the original timeline due to various calendar clashes, sickness, etc)
    - MO will include the GitHub For Maintainers skill-up: if you did not attend that last year and would like to now, keep an eye out for announcements on the Slack channel and mailing list. You are welcome to join!
    - Introduction to Working with Data (Regular Expressions) only has one active Maintainer (3 listed on website, but Shari has stepped down and Freddy not active) - Erin follow up with Nathaniel
- Infrastructure updates
    - Support for tabbed content
        - Documented here: https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/episodes.html#tabbed-content
        - A good fit to replace 'spoiler' blocks for installation/setup instructions for different operating systems
        - Be aware that you may receive pull requests implementing the new syntax on your lessons
    - Support for Citation File Format (CFF)
        - CFF is a machine-readable file format to describe how a project should be cited, e.g. if software is used in research and no formal paper is available. Learn more about it at https://citation-file-format.github.io/
        - It is now supported in a minimal way (for now) in the lesson infrastructure: a lesson whose repository includes a `CITATION.cff` file will link to that file from the _Cite_ link in the page footer.
        - We hope this will make it easier for contributors to lessons (especially Maintainers) to receive credit for their work, and this is also an important step towards a process for regularly publishing versions of lessons to Zenodo. The Curriculum Team has some other ideas for how the information in the files could be used, but all of this requires development time, which is currently severely limited.
        - Learn more about the support for CFFs in the lesson infrastructure at https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/editing.html#making-your-lesson-citable
        - If you would like to create a CFF for your lesson already, you are welcome to. But please be aware that its content may be overwritten in future, as we will soon discuss and determine a standard way of describing (official) Carpentries lessons in CFFs.

- Updates on status of CACs
    - Maintainers will receive an update about the status of Curriculum Advisory Committees for their relevant curriculum next week
    - Most CACs are remaining active, but a few are not. 
    - Update next week will include guidance for Maintainers whose lessons no longer have an active CAC they could refer to

- Time left for discussion of specific issues (none noted)
