# 2020-12-16 Maintainer Meeting

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Maintainer Community Lead (aka all the lessons)
- Peter Hoyt (he/him), Oklahoma State University, Genomics Organization & Spreadsheet Organization (for Ecologists)
- Christina Koch (she/her), UW-Madison, SQL-Ecology // Docker-Intro
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer // Meta lessons
- Jaki, SQL
- Francois Michonneau (he/him), The Carpentries // DC R-ecology

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Maintainer Community Lead (aka all the lessons)
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), Data Science Hub University of Wisconsin-Madison
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries
    - with JoMo the cat
- Drake Asberry, University of Arizona, Intro R Rasters + geospatial

Timekeeper: (1) Peter, (2)
Notetaker (please add notes within agenda below): (1) Zhian Kamvar, (2) Zhian Kamvar

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

- Heads up: The Carpentries will be recruiting volunteers for user experience testing of the lessons.
    - testing of the lesson template across the carpentries community
        - find pain points to let the UX person know what needs to be worked on for re-designs
        - This UX testing is language agonstic (will focus on website appearance and functionality), but the lesson template will use R for the build process
    - looking for: instructors and learners
    - Around Feburary 2021
- Optional Co-Working session: Dec 2, 21:00 UTC (4pm EST / 1pm PST)
    - Organized by Christina K
    - Working with large lesson update PRs
        - History around coworking sessions: we all have good intentions but it's hard to make the time to get started and some of the content would be good for doing IN the maintainer meeting, but the coworking session was a good place for people to has out issues. It was the second maintainer meeting time on an off week. 
        - Lots of people showed up! Should we keep this time (first Wednesday of the month)? Should we have two time zones? The PST afternoon is excluding European time zones.
        - Keeping something similar to the training schedule in terms of time blocks
        - Drake: This session was really helpful for me to get started and get things moving.
            - It seemed like there were a lot of people who were just happy that they had the time to do this.
            - We didn't anticipate a large chunk of time being dedicated to working on a large PR, but it was a good group experience.
            - Ultimately, it will be beneficial for The Carpentries as a whole. People generally had a positive experience.
    - What day of the week and time blocks work for people?
        - Do a poll that's a week long and ask people to give availability and find a two hour block that fits other people's schedules.
        - We could have people host. Ask for a monthly call and see who can host. 
        - Dan will send an email out for the first week of January to host.
        - This session actually brought up issues that we got to discuss in this meeting
- Library Carpentry Git lesson needs a maintainer
    - Chuck McAndrew needs to step out for a bit
    - How have people done this in the past outside of the new maintainer cohort that comes in during the summer?
    - Do we assign someone right now, or do we just put this on hold?
    - François: in the past, we've let people become maintainers even if they are not fully onboarded. 
    - Dan will send a call out in Discuss or a Slack Message to general
- Trying out Etherpad -> CodiMD because markdown!
    - There's no clear way to get a custom slug for the URL.
    - François actually set up https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers# eight months ago and we can use this in the future
- Add minutes to https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-minutes
- Trainers Guide as reference for Maintainers Guide
    - Trainers Guide: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/trainers_guide.html
    - Maintainer Guide: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/index.html
- Flight rules
    - We would like to have flight rules for the maintainer community
    - Examples: https://github.com/k88hudson/git-flight-rules
- Repo for maintainers dashboard
    - Mentioned this during the coworking session
    - what would you like to see in it?
        - E.G. number of people per repo
        - people who are on multiple repository
        - issues created
        - GDPR reasons: Dan wants to avoid publishing people's names here
        - Christina: is there a prototype?
            - No, because dan is still fixing a bug
        - François: Toby had identified some OS tools that does some of this work, identifiying how engaged people and how many commits are made. It may be too much for our purposes, but it would mean that we don't have to reinvent too many wheels.
        - To clarify, it's a kind of health check for repositories.
        - It's kind of hard to imagine what this would look like for The Carpentries. 
        - Keep it in mind and we'll compile these.
- Dan's goal(s) for next month:
    - Compare the maintainer guidelines with the trainer guidelines and have discussions around things we want to adopt
        - Pre-requsites
        - Readings 
            - (onboarding materials)
        - Meetings
        - Time commitment
            - This one is tricky, it's not clear how to specify this, making requirements not clear how to be fair in the expectations (e.g. one meeting per quarter?)

#### 4. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

- What went well for you this year (in general)
- What went well for you this year with your lesson
    - onboarding
    - meeting other matinatiners
    - maintainer meetings
    - new issues from other people's comments!
    - lessons without Jekyll!
    - Had co-maintainers that were very active on the lessons to modernize the lessons.
    - Brought on new maintainer to R Ecology lesson.
    - Created and ran two pilots on a Jekyll lesson!
- What would you like to work on next year?
    - taking care of lesson issues
    - dealing with large PRs
        - how to "vote" on large contributions
    - Continuing to maintain
    - Figure out who is actively interested in maintaining
    - Figure out better mechanisms for feedback
        - Test driving community discussion session for specific lessons
        - Toby has something around a python/conda lesson
        - Feedback for SQL: experience in teaching it, what did you skip, how is the flow? Want to make it easier to teach and more effective.
    - Prototype lesson template
    - Consolidate and maintain lessons easier
    - Changing some things to make the R Ecology lesson more modern and starting with visualization (e.g. cake model of teaching).
    - Developing more lessons and helping others develop more lessons. The docker maintainers will meet in march to work towards a stable lesson. 
    - becoming a maintainer and keeping in touch with the community
    - keeping in contact with other active maintainers and making a decision together
    - Looking for ways to get people updated and excited about the Geospatial in R lesson. 
  
#### 5. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)
https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues

- None!

#### 6. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

###### Questions from Co-working session

- Does anyone know if installing sqlite3 on Mac automatically installs DBBrowser? Or if you need a password on Mac? 
    - https://github.com/datacarpentry/sql-ecology-lesson/pull/259
    - https://github.com/datacarpentry/sql-ecology-lesson/issues/246

- Peter Hoyt  needs helpwith large PR of lesson re-write
    - https://github.com/datacarpentry/spreadsheet-ecology-lesson/pull/297
    - In general, what is the process for drastically re-writing/re-forming a lesson? 
        - Question: in the pull request, were there new topics added? 
            - No. The fixed wording was sometimes longer and I know that there are some things that I know I can fix, but there was a lot of it. I couldn't see a good way for me to work on this right in the lesson itself. One thing that comes up is if the images are reflective of the spreadsheets people are using (e.g. differences between mac/libreoffice/windows). 
        - Does the additional more wordy wording make the lesson standalone better? 
            - It might help people who are reading the lesson on their own and it has issues potentially disparaging windows users. 
        - François: I was tagged on this and I'm happy to give a review for guidance.
    - Moveing the PR into a different branch (not gh-pages)
    - instructor training for wording
    - Ideas for `contributing.md` guidelines
        - Summary of changes (executive change log)
        - Submit separate PRs (either by topic or by episodes)
- How are the components from the reference page generated?
    - e.g., https://datacarpentry.org/sql-ecology-lesson/reference.html
    - vs: https://github.com/datacarpentry/sql-ecology-lesson/blob/gh-pages/reference.md
    - from "keypoints" in `_includes`: https://github.com/datacarpentry/sql-ecology-lesson/blob/gh-pages/_layouts/reference.html
    - Things in reference.md are in `{{content}}` (aka after keypoints)
    - good example: https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-gapminder/blob/master/reference.md
 - For writing notes: do you prefer to see the previous meeting's notes as we go or is it easier to take notes as we go?
     - Drake: right now we are just adding on to the notes? Yes. It doesn't really matter to me in the initial writing, but having all of them consolidated at the end is nice so that we can reference it easier later.
     - Drake: It doesn't bother me and it has the potential to spur discussion
     - Sarah: I prefer interleaving because it's a lot less confusing. 
 - Next meeting, we will use https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers
 - Previewing local changes on an R-based lesson, is there a way to render just one page?
     - https://github.com/datacarpentry/geospatial-workshop/blob/gh-pages/Makefile#L91
     - `make _episodes/01-xxxxxx.md`
