## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, August 17, 2022

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community Lead
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech, Instructor Training
- Aditya Ranganath (he/him), University of Colorado Boulder, maintainer for Intro to Geospatial Concepts
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC for Social Sciences OpenRefine
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, [Collaborative Lesson Development Training](https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-development-training/)

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community Lead
- Agustina Pesce (she/her), ..., maintainer for Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Irene Ramos (she/her), CONABIO, Python for Ecology in Spanish
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure 
- Jennifer Stubbs (she/her), Bradley University, Maintainer for LC-OpenRefine
- James Foster (he/him), CSIRO, SQL for Ecologists

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
- If you messaged The Carpentries team, people are catching up from CarpentryCon, but will answer shortly
- Participate in interviews for Director of Technology
- Job posting for Infrastructure Technology Developer (Django Webservices)

##### 12 UTC
- The team is recovering from CarpentryCon :)
- Email from Erin to Maintainers Mailing List
    - Get involved with interviewing for Director of Technology
    - Good opportunity to get some insight on how The Carpentries operate
    - [fill in your availability for those interviews (22-25 August)](http://whenisgood.net/x959k8f)
- Curriculum Advisory Committee's are being formed for all curricula that still needed one: DC Eco, Image, and SocSci, and the SWC committee is getting a couple new members
    - CAC onboarding will begin in the first half of September, new committees should be ready to schedule their first meeting in Q4 2022.


#### 3. Topic of the Month (30 min)

##### 22 UTC
- CarpentryCon had some really interesting sessions!
    - Will be available in YouTube
    - Technical sessions bring a lot of useful knowledge for Maintainers
- Transition to beta phase will resume in September
    - Only lessons that volunteered to do so

##### 12 UTC

- CarpentryCon aftermath
- fill in [the feedback survey about the conference](https://carpentries.typeform.com/carpentrycon22)
- Vini: Zhian presented a session on The Carpentries Workbench.
    - beta phase is coming up soon, giving Maintainers the opportunity to try out transition to Workbench
    - revamped repository structure
    - contact Zhian to register interest in joining the beta phase (e.g. tag him @zkamvar in an issue on your lesson's GitHub repo)
- Lots of Curriculum-related sessions
    - One sentence (Scott Peterson) that stood out: "Being a Maintainer is the hardest thing you can do in The Carpentries.", which is probably true.
    - Curriculum Team should support the Maintainers as a community that talks to each other and enable lesson development
    - The Workbench transition is a factor in that context. It'll make Maintainers' lives easier
    - First Curriculum meeting post-CarpentryCon will happen soon
        - If you're doing things as a lesson maintainer and you're finding them difficult for whatever reason, let us know. Either contact Vini (@vinisalazar on GitHub or viniws@gmail.com) or anyone from the Core Team (team@carpentries.org / tobyhodges@carpentries.org).
    - When Curriculum Advisors make a recommendation for a lesson, the responsibility for that shouldn't fall on Maintainers. Ideally the CACs will communicate that on the repository, and the community would that, but that is difficult to happen. How to bridge that gap, and focus the energy of the community on big updates that need to be done?
    - Ben: responding to suggestions but not hearing back from the original poster is a hard part of being a Maintainer. It would be good to have some support/more concrete suggestions/PRs to help us improve based on e.g. CAC comments. I also wonder if people enjoy creating new lessons more than they enjoy handling the big things in existing lessons.
    - Nathaniel: maintaining core lessons is really important, as that is what most people teach. Many times lessons in other places (e.g. Incubator) stem from things that are already happening. Emphasis in the core lessons is important.
    - Vini: agree that emphasis on core lessons is important. problem in all open source projects is the time it can take time for (big) PRs to be approved. A bit more autonomy to Maintainers could be helpful. I have had experience elsewhere where time taken for discussion and review/approval can take so long that momentum gets lost.
    - Toby: providing that autonomy is what we were aiming for when we wrote the CAC Consultation Document (when we must/when we should). Having established CACs is an important factor for that. When someone is making a big change based on a CAC recommendation, it would be nice to tag the CAC to check if that's what was intended. Maintainers still have a responsibility which is outside of the theoretical scope recommended by CACs (practical/code quality).
        - Something else to think about is the publication cycle of lessons. The Workbench will make this easier. In the past, The Carpentries would publish lesson versions on Zenodo, but this hasn't been happening. This can be complicated because of creditting authors in publications, which can involve problems such as filtering out commits from the Git history, and several others. The Carpentries is thinking about and working on ways to facilitate the publication cycle. Hoping that this will incentivise people to make some of these larger contributions - because they will get prominent authorship credit on the next lesson publication.
        - Relevant: [lesson credit page](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/issues/238) on lesson websites for the new template. Also include funding bodies, etc. ATM, GitHub lists the top contributors as the people who have created the styles template. With Workbench, these commits will be excised and the GitHub contributors page will show people who are 'actually' working on the lesson.
    - Ben: sometimes feel that I get too little feedback from Instructors teaching the lesson I maintain.
    **How to identify instructors which are teaching my lesson? How to encourage instructors to submit feedback to lessons?**
    - Nathaniel: if we want to encourage and credit people for lesson development, specially in say Data Carpentry which is domain-specific, how can we create incentives for that? And regarding feedback for lessons, maybe the email template that is sent after a lesson is taught could include some way of including feedback about that lesson. 
    - **Follow-up should be with workshop administration team.** Although it's hard to predict if it'll help, any positive effect is welcome.


#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (15 min)

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

##### 12 UTC
- How to link issues and pull requests? How to close issues automatically with commits?
    - By adding words "closes", "fixes", and "resolves" followed by #XX with the issue number, when that commit is merged to the default branch of a repo, it will automatically close the issue. This also works by adding that to the body of the pull request.
        - GitHub docs about this: [[1]](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/using-keywords-in-issues-and-pull-requests), [[2]](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue)

#### 7. For next meeting
