## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, March 16, 2022

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen, UBC, Community Maintainer Lead
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC OpenRefine for Social Sciences
- Luis J. Villanueva, Smithsonian, OpenRefine Ecology
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen, UBC, Community Maintainer Lead

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

##### Maintainer Opt-in Survey Results

 - 122 respondents to the survey.
 - This shows that if something was inactive, there's not much traffic going on.
 - There were 43 people who wanted to step down across 11 repositories.
 - Six repositories have people flagging that they would like to soft-transition out.
 - We have a need for 17 new maintainers.
 - Now that we have a list of repositories in need, we can be more explicit in our call for maintainers.
 - What happens with the people who do not want to be maintainers anymore?
 - In the past, people would be removed with no notification
 - This time, we will be doing notifications before this happens so that there is fair warning.

Questions:

 - Erin: we have ~20 people that didn't respond. Doing the check to see how many additional repositories this represents is important. Figuring out if we want to over-recruit (so that we have backups) is also something to think about.
 - Q: Is there a reason maintainers give for leaving?
 - A: This wasn't asked. There are many reasons that someone could step down (life events, etc.)
 - Erin: we didn't prompt them for the reason that some maintainers have been on for six years and they were never given the explicit opportunity to step down.
 - Ben: after becoming a maintainer, I feel there is more responsibility than I knew before, but I am trying my best.

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30 min)

##### The Carpentries Workbench (Zhian)
- Calling for interested maintainers to beta test the workbench in April/May.
- Blog Post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/01/live-lesson-infrastructure/
- Workbench Documentation: https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/

- Side-by-side demo styles template and workbench
- Spent last 2 years rethinking the lesson infrastruture becuase of multiple points of friction in maintining lesson
- Lessons that are hard to maintain go out of date
- Redesign: looks better! and easier to maintain and develop (on own computer or online)
- Jekyll + Ruby breaks :(
- New lessons: builds on top of R + Pandoc

- Workbench has a "learner" and "instructor" view of the lesson
- Instructor view adds more info to the page
    - instructor notes
        - in line with the lesson for specific notes at that point in the lesson
        - also in menu item for overall lesson notes
    - menu items
    - Episode structure: estimated time, instructor notes (live inside the lesson insead of separate page)
- Callout blocks are formatted differently
    - We use fenced divs to specify the type of callout block
    - Challenges + solutions can also uses nested fenced divs (no more nested html tags)


- Q: General instructor notes vs in-line
    - in line + general menu item
- Q: Font sizes of headings >>> font size of body text
    - Styles separate from engine.
    - Style issues + changes can be put here: https://github.com/carpentries/varnish
    - May not change CSS elements duing beta testing, but will note style changes

- Current lesosn has a lot of folders you don't need (e.g., `_includes`, `_layouts`) for lesosn content (`episodes`)
- New repo has fewer folders
- old "extras" folder into 3 folders: instructors, learners, profiles
    - separate folders and documents for different people who will interact with the lesson
- New Features: no longer have the engine built into the lesson
    - new lesson repositories are smaller
- How to build the lessons
    - styles
        - `make serve & a=$!`
    - sandpaper
        - `R`
        - `sandpaper::serve()`
        - does static checking of the episodes
        - checks what episodes need to be re-built
        - builds website + open browser
        - will also check if images are missing alt-text
- Questions: no longer in header -> moved to fenced divs (No more worrying about quotation marks)
    - before was in YAML header
- Challenges: allows you to have code that looks like code (and syntax highlighting)
    - before code was highlighted as verbatim text
    - now: easier to see + edit

Comments:

- Love the new layout, esp splitting content from lesson infrastruture
- There will be a lot of lesson history changes. We'll try our best to make sure authorship and credit gets retained
- Authors should clone the repo just in case
- There will be support on our end

Q: assums it handles the new multi-line rmd code chunk options? e.g.:

`````
# https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33628318/split-r-chunk-header-across-lines-in-knitr
# https://github.com/yihui/knitr/releases/tag/v1.35
```{r}
#| echo: false
#| warning: false
#| fig.cap: >
#|   Here is my really long caption.  It'd be nice to
#|   split this and other portions across lines

print(plot(x=runif(100),y=runif(100)))
```
`````

A: YES! Anything that knitr supports, we support (side note: it looks like [there is a little hiccup with {renv} on this feature](https://github.com/rstudio/renv/issues/963) that prevents us from using it right now)

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (min)

- Alumni + Active Maintainers: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/20

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### 7. For next meeting
