## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, October 19, 2022

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, OpenRefine for Social Sciences data
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, OpenRefine Ecology
- Adi Ranganath (he/him), CU Boulder, Intro to Geospatial Concepts

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.
- 

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (00 min)


#### 3. Topic of the Month (50 min)
- Instructors Checkout Process

Survey: what experience do you have?

Irene: completed it in july and got my certificate recently.
Adi: I completed my training about a year ago. 

Questions: is this about the checkout process or the whole training?
Answer: it is specifically about the checkout. 

1. What do you think the goals of checkout should be? 
*  To learn and/or reinforce necessary skills for ongoing collaboration with the Carpentries community
*  
*    
*  
2. How well do you think the checkout process prepares Instructors to teach Carpentries workshops? 
*  Reasonably well, but the experience of teaching a full-length lesson is quite different from a 5-minute session 
*  The checkout process doesn't in itself prepare Instructors, but it demonstrates a commitment to further participation. 
*  
*  
*  
3. What part or parts of checkout is/are the most worthwhile for the trainees, the community, or both? Why?
*  Learning the git-based collaboration process.
*  The teaching demo, because it's an exercise to put into practice what is taught during training, even if briefly. 
*  
*  
*  
*  
4. What part or parts of checkout is/are the most challenging for the trainees, the community, or both? Why? 
*  For me it was the teaching demo, because it required the most preparation and as someone with little teaching experience in general, it felt very new. But it was challenging in a good way!
*  The part of the community that is receiving contributions from those in the checkout process: could be reminded of what it is (via a link to an FAQ?), and whether the contribution needs to be accepted to count etc. 
*  
*  
*  
5. What support have you experienced or are you aware of for trainees completing checkout? 
*  
*  
*  
*  
*  
6. We want to ensure the checkout process is supportive and accessible to everyone. Please share any barriers you may have experienced and/or suggestions for how we could improve the accessibility of this program? 
*  I did my teaching demo from home, using my laptop computer; I didn't feel like I had an ideal set-up (i.e. double monitors, large screens etc.) but I'm not sure that the Carpentries could really help with my resource constraints. 
*  It made all the difference for me that I was able to complete the checkout process in Spanish, in a single session, and just afer completing the training when the material was still fresh in my mind. And with a group of people from LatAm! I would have wanted more practice for the demo, it was helpful to receive feedback from other people who were also completing the checkout, but we had very little time.
*  
*  
*  
7. How much time do you think it takes a trainee to complete checkout? This could come from your personal experience or you can provide an estimate.
*  I took a long time to check-out (I recieved two extensions) because I was dealing with a variety of commitments after the instructor training (getting used to a new job, moving to a different part of the country etc.). I really appreciated the flexibility on timelines, which I think makes things more inclusive than they would be if there were hard deadlines. 
*  
*  
*  
*  
*  
8. We want checkout to be worthwhile for everyone. What do you recommend checkout should include? Consider new ideas, changes, or things to keep.
*  I think it should be explicit that the demo includes taking a question from someone and answering it. In our group, it was one of the most common points in the feedback I and other people received, that we didn't take the time to take questions from "students"
*  
*  
*  
*  Maybe an optional "apprentice" program where you are paired with an experienced instructor and teach something soon after the check-out. I know newcomers are paired with experienced instructors in any case, but in an apprentice program, there could be a commitment on the part of the experienced instructor to help with preparation beforehand, help with practice etc.
*  +1 the apprentice program, one challenge for me has been figuring out what to do after completing the instructor training.
* 


**Notes**

What about the lesson contribution? What is the purpose? 
* Adi: it's valuable to get a sense of how the lessons are put together in a collaborative way. People who are new to github: it is valuable to get a sense of the mechanics of how that works.
* Irene: IME, even small contributions are valuable, and it gives instructors a chance to carefully read the lessons and gives them the knowledge that they can propose those changes. 
* James: I agree with the other two maintainers on this call. The process is important, but it can be a hurdle and making sure people get through it is important.

How well do you think the current lesson contribution step is meeting those purposes? 
* Irene: I made my contribution to a lesson in Spanish and that made all the difference because the Spanish material is not as up-to-date as the lessons in English. One disadvantage is that it felt like the material was not as well used or as alive as the lessons in English. It was easier because there were more opportunities for contribution. 
* James: I think that list of good first issues is a really good initiative to help the process. 
* Question: do you find that people are using those?
* James: I have not received one since becoming maitnainers, but I would be interested if those are being addressed at a higher rate than others. 
* Adi: I wonder whether there can be more done to help people who have never used GitHub before (e.g. documentation with screenshots). A video or an example with screenshots would be helpful.

Given the purposes we talked about and some of the challenges we know exist, From your perspective (as maintainers and instructors), do you think this is a useful thing to do? Is it a useful piece of the checkout process to keep?

* Irene: I do think it is a valuable step because it gave me a sense of belonging to the community. When it's just fixing a link or a typo or a comma doesn't feel as meaningful, but when it's something substantial, it feels so much more meaningful to put your name down as a contributor.
* James: Is there a way of contributing to a lesson you are demoing or making that more common? Maybe folks can not only demo teaching, but also talk about the contribution they made.
* Kelly: it makes sense because time you spend preparing for the teaching demo means that you are alos digging into the lesson. 
* Adi: Building off what James said, but do people have the option of doing the demonstration first followed by the contribution. I'm wondering if there are data about what order people do the process. I'm thinking that people who do the contribution first are more likely to add a meaningful contribution that required immersion in the lesson.
* Talisha: I've been doing the admin, and it seems like I generally record demo before lesson contribution. 

We've been thinking through a lot of options for this particular step. Some of the things we ahve been thinking about have been like doing a GitHub skillup instead or making a contribution to a sandbox repository, but it sounds like the fact that it was real is important to you. Do you have thoughts about working in the existing repositories vs. doing something that is more artificial that would be potentially less intimidating and provide less noise for maitnainers? 

James: I am strongly for contributing to actual lessons rather than sandbox or checkout-specific process as the actual benchmark. That being said, it would be good to have a sandbox for people to try out on the path to contributing something to an actual lesson. My answer: whynot both (with the requirement being actual lessonc otnribution)

What is your general resopnse to checkout issues and PRs? Do you get a lot of them? Are they useful? Any difficulties? What are your thoughts about these? 

Irene: I don't have much to say because I ahve not received any PR or issues as a result from the checkout process. I do have a question, though. During the maintainer training it was emmphasised that the main way we recieve contributions is through the checkout process. I haven't received any in my lesson. Is this a way to keep the lessons updated or is it a quality control step for the instructors?

Kelly: I think it was both. As the lessons have become more mature, it is less critical for the lessons to recieve this updates. 

Erin: You are right that the rate of contributions to spanish lessons is much lower than english. Even in english, it's quite variable depending on how often it is taught. The original intention was that requiring contributions was an essential component to ensuring lesson are updated. If something did not work, they would be empowered to go in and make a change so the lessons would not be stagnant. But it was designed for a ver small instructor community. 

Adi: My experience has been similar. The Geospatial Concepts lesson is more conceptual and more difficult to make meaningful contributions for. 

Erin: This is really interesting because it's going to depend on the lessons that are represented. High traffic lessons and low traffic lessons have very different experiences. It would be good to reach out to the maintainers of the high traffic lessons.

Broader Checkout Process: How can we reduce barriers and provide support for trainees. What do you remember as being a challeng for some of the other parts of checkout? 

James: Finding a time in my TZ (Coastal Australia) that was suitable to do it was one of the issues at the time. 

Irene: I wrote this in the notes, but I wanted to emphasise that it made all the difference that I was able to do everything in spanish all in one session. The fact that the training session was tied with the checkout process, demo, and discussion felt very supportive. People who had less experience were able to benefit from those who had more experience. (this was via Metadocencia)

Erin: Was this Metadocencia online or in person and what was the length? 

Irene: It was online and four days spread across two weeks. The checkout was an additional day after the training. 

Erin: This really helps because it helps us understand how this can work when having a group checkout event with the folks in training. 

If you could design the checkout process, what would you want it to include?

James: I like that idea of doing the checkout process with the people you went through instructor training with. 

Erin: James you hit the nail on the head of the most commonly cited improvement of the checkout process. 

Adi: I think that the cohort idea is a nice one. I wonder if that becomes a bigger part or a requirement that it becomes less flexible. I was going through a lot of things after my instructor training and I wasn't able to go through the normal timeline to go through the process. I really appreciated the extension for the checkouts. 
Talisha (in chat):Maybe we could cohort at checkout instead of at the training so when someone is ready to do checkout that's when they sign up


James: I agree about the flexibility, but maybe it would be as simple as having a form that would allow you to ask questions of people who wne through the training with you. 

- Asynchronous Feedback from Maintainers
- Workbench Beta Phase dates [(The Dovetail #008)](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/10/dovetail-008/)
- New release of Amy

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (00 min)

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session (00 min)

#### 7. For next meeting

