## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, September 21, 2022

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community Lead
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, OpenRefine for DC SocSci
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, OpenRefine Ecology
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, Curriculum TEam Lead + "Maintainer" on DC Image Processing lesson

2nd meeting: [ CANCELLED ]

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

- Name, affilitation, lesson, where you are based.

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)
- Doing the last Curriculum Advisory Committee Onboarding session tomorrow
    - Blog post announcing in the next week
    - Scheduling meetings before the end of the year
    - Success in establishing committees in all remaining subjects
    - New policies in how committees' recommendations can be converted into updates
- Update about Carpentries Workbench
    - Dovetail blog post coming up
    - Beta testing beginning in October
    - Lessons can be signed up by contacting Zhian Kamvar

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30 min)
- Vini: Instructor Training Team will join the Maintainer meetings next month to gather Maintainer perspectives on the Instructor Training Checkout Process. They are running a project on this, redesigning the checkout process for certifying new Instructors. Keen to hear what Maintainers would like to see with this.
- Alt text-athon: you may be seeing Pull Requests coming in to add alt-text to images in your lessons. Initiative being led by Brynn Elliot, Accessibility Coordinator for The Carpentries.
    - [Blog post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/09/2022-accessibility-at-the-carpentries/)
    - [Entry on Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/adapting-existing-lessons-for-the-carpentries.html#add-alt-text-to-images)
- Guidance for instructors of when is it okay to forking lessons/changing content/etc
    - Discussion on [Instructors Slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/C08BVNU00/p1663121227691109)
    - When does it stop being an "official" workshop?
    - How may changes be integrated back into lessons? (And should they?)
    - Suggesting to people who fork to consider making pull requests with the things that they change
    - Could be a topic for a Community Discussion, but let's respond in the thread first

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (15 min)

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### 7. For next meeting
- Instructor checkout team gathering feedback from Maintainers
- Rollout of Workbench Beta Phase