
## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, April 20, 2022

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen, UBC, Community Maintainer Lead
- Jon Jablonski (he), UC Santa Barbara, newb
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Vini Salazar (he/him), UniMelb, Python Ecology Spanish
- Jamie Jamison, UCLA, lc-shell

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen, UBC, Community Maintainer Lead
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Rodolfo "Rudy" Montez (he/him/his), Smithsonian, Astronomy Curriculum

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)



#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

#####  Planning Beta Phase of The Carpentries Workbench
- Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qA9U4BkLKW_kOn696jKkDbUgv910_i-sGbHTZ9tyURQ/edit?usp=sharing

- Our lessons have a wide audience
    - Sudden changes make it difficult to teach + contribute
- Changes to url
    - default lesson lives in `<carpentry>github.io/<lesson>`
    - beta: `lessons.<carpentry>.org/<lesson>`
    - After beta, the beta will be the new default and old URLs will be redirected
- Snapshot of mainteners who have opted in will be copied into beta
- Maintainers will be given access to the beta repo
- `legacy` branch will serve jekyll site from that point, and then beta will be in the `main` branch.
- in RC phase, the jekyll site will just redirect to beta site
- timing
    - pre-beta: snapshot of repo with 2 sites (~4 weeks)
    - beta: 2 parallel releases (~6 weeks); opt-in
    - RC (old URL redirects to new) (~6 months)
    - Release
- ALl maintainers of the lesson have to agree to the beta
- More simple folders (style info will no longer be in repo)
- fenced divs instead of block quotes
- links will be called via relative paths
    - no more templating
- Prepare for beta
    - maintainers give consent
    - triage PRs
    - practice with pre-beta repo
    - ask questions

- Looking for feedback during beta
    - GitHub Discussions
    - Slack
    - Meetings
    - Friction Logs
        - 3 point scale on how difficult/easy it was to do a particular task

Q: will this drift down to incubator repos?
A: there won't be a beta phase for incubator repos. they will have pre-beta, then jump directly into full transition. Since they're not taught as often + actively developed. Those maintainers will be opt-in.

Q: Other than these meetings, slack, etc, how will this be communicated to maintainers
A: meetings, slack, and topic box will be the main forms of communication. As well as announcements on the Github repo. Mostly will be targeted announcementents

Q: Few maintainers pointed out at the library, can slides be posted?
A: yes, can share slides, Zhian can also show up at meeting and present

Q: where is the figss folder?
A: figs are INSIDE the episodes folder

Q: when is beta/timing?
A: initial beta is opt-in only. if you are not in the beta phase, your repo will not change for the next 6-8 months. we are still working on how to get and iterate on feedback. Hopefully this set of changes is easier to work with and slower.

Q: when will betas start?
A: look for blogpost at the end of the month.

Q: when is triaging?
A: up and until the beta phase (pre-beta, which shows up on a separate website)

Q: how do we re-train the maintainers who do not opt in when Workbench is ready?
A: we will need to make a plan for this

Q: How are you translating
A: there's a package called Tinker that turns markdown -> AST -> Kramdown -> pandoc markdown

Q: jekyll?
A: no mroe jekyll, this will be done using R, but you won't need to know how to work in R to use Workbench

- In the future: you won't need to copy+paste python output
    - https://learntodiscover.github.io/lesson2_sandpaper/

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30 min)

- Vini will be slowly transitioning into the lead maintainer role
    - Main point of communication for the maintainers
    - Maintainer onboarding
    - New Workbench beta phase
    - Last year: maintainer opt-in
        - Good thing about opt-in: we can place maintainers in the proper lessons
    - Pre-Dan: Angela set up maintainer guidelines (https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/maintainers.html)
- https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/22

- Maintainer Meeting time changes
    - Due to time zone differences, Meeting times may change in the upcoming months, stay tuned for updates 
    - Vini (offline): propose the times to switch to 12 UTC and 00 UTC (or 22 if 00 doesn't work). These are 22h and 10h / 8h for me.
        - Will discuss this with Erin internally


#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (15 min)

- https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues


#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

- Move to Toby's session on Thursdays

#### 7. For next meeting

- Vini will run it!
