## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, June 15, 2022

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community Lead
- Ben Companjen (he/him), Leiden University Libraries, DC SocSci OpenRefine
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, Ecology OpenRefine
- David DeMuth (he/him), Valley City State Un., Astro-python
- Toan Phung (he/him), University of Dundee, Programming With Python
- Sarah Pohl (she/her), Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, new maintainer DC Python for Ecology
- Eirini Zormpa (she/her), The Alan Turing Institute, DC Data analysis and visualisation with R for Social Scientists (new maintainer)

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 
- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, Maintainer Community Lead
- Jennifer Stubbs she/her, unemployed, new to maintainer onboarding for LC-OpenRefine
- James Foster, CSIRO, maintainer on-boarding to SQL Ecology lesson.
- Irene Ramos, CONABIO, new maintainer for Data analysis and visualization in Python for ecologists (Spanish)
- Mariana Gómez, CICESE, new mantainer for Git-novice-es
- Agustina Pesce, new maintainer for Data analysis and visualization in Python for ecologists (Spanish version)
- Girmaye Misgna, UPenn, new maintainer for Introduction to Geospatial Concepts
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, none/all?
- Sehrish Kanwal (she/her), new maintainer for R for reproducible scientific analysis

Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (15 min)

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30 min)
- New round of Maintainer Onboarding!
- Infrastructure questions can be asked in the [Workbench discussions page](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions)
- Questions
    - [Community Calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/) at the very end of the page
        - Possible to subscribe and switch on and off
    - GitHub: when I mention a team (e.g. for my lesson), do people get a notification? Answer is [yes](https://github.blog/2012-05-09-introducing-team-mentions/).
        - Actually, the question was: when I request a review from my team using GitHub's review assignment functionality, do the team members get a notification? As expected, I haven't had such notifications from my own review requests, but I wondered what the others on my team see. According to <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review> the team does indeed get a notification.
    - How to deal with stale PRs?
        - Try to provide some sort of resolution, e.g. merge or close. If not merging, try to provide some encouragement/establish positive communication with the contributor to provide more contributions in the future.
        - "Housekeeping" is just as important as code reviews.
    - Can I merge my own PRs?
        - Ideally another maintainer should review a PR before it's merged. But, if there's no reply after a few days and they are small changes, it's OK to merge it, it's still better than pushing diretly to the `gh-pages` branch.
    - How to find my co-Maintainers for my lesson? Use GitHub Teams. GitHub Teams are hierarchical, so you should be both in your respective Carpentries team (e.g. SW Carpentry, [Data Carpentry](https://github.com/orgs/datacarpentry/teams/lesson-maintainers/teams)), and in your lesson team.
        - If you tag your Team, people will get subscribed to that issue/PR.
    - How to use issue tags? Tags are used to classify issues. Highest priority is `bug`, but they `help wanted` tag can be used to identify issues that are fit for people to contribute. They also show up in the [help wanted page](https://carpentries.org/help-wanted-issues/).
    - Internationalisation:
        - Are maintainers expected to keep up with the original lessons?
            - No. The original lessons are more of a "starting point" to the international lessons, and are not expected to be identical. That being said, there's an active community working on internalisation so lessons can be synced, but as of yet there's not a unified structure to do this.
        - Should discussions be held in English or the lesson's language?
            - Both are fine! Discussions in the language's lesson are very welcome.
    - Dealing with stale issues/PRs
        - Identify if the issue/PRs is still relevant, provide resolution by commenting and closing the issue.
        - It's nice to keep the issues/PRs up-to-date and relevant to the current state of the lesson
    - [Linked issues example](https://github.com/datacarpentry/astronomy-python/issues/133)
    - Meeting dates: every third Wednesday of the month, linked in this CodiMD.
- Items can be added to the agenda of Maintainer Meetings, please contact Vini for that.
- The Carpentries Slack #maintainer channel can be used to ask questions asynchronously.
- New time for meetings seems to be working well.
    - Are the meeting minutes archived somewhere?
        - Yes - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources/tree/main/2022
    - How do I notify my lesson Maintainer team? 
        - Use team tags like this: @r-novice-gapminder-maintainers


#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (15 min)

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### 7. For next meeting
