### Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, August 18

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), UW-Madison
- Julika Mimkes (she/her/hers), SUB Göttingen (Germany), SQL
- Peter Hoyt

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- ~Christopher Felker (he/him), Harvard Medical School \ BIDMC, Library Carpentry Introduction to Git \ Data Intro Archives~
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer
- Elizabeth (Lisa) McAulay (she/her), Univeristy of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Library, Library Carpentry Introduction to Git
- Olav Vahtras, KTH, Python novice gapminder
- Sally Chang (she/her), NIH, DC Genomics Intro to the Shell
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Genomics Workshop Overview
- Allen Lee, Arizona State University, Python Gapminder
- 
### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)
- GitHub Codespaces (github.dev) (Zhian)
    - You can replace .com with .dev to edit the repo in online VSCode
    - Free until Sept 10, and then a few cents per minute.
        - https://docs.github.com/en/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-codespaces
    - Q: Will maintainers find this useful? if so, what would you want to see in it?
    - Julika: This seems like something that might be nice to have, but not necessarily needed. Might not be a key feature to enable lesson maintenance
    - Zhian: Editing on github is difficult for a jekyll lesson becuase the syntax highlighitng doesn't work as well. VSCode will enable you to use a jekyll highlighter. VSCode is more accessiable and will not lag as much.
    - Zhian: Example where it may be useful: (1) on work computer but do not want to clone the repo to make a change. (2) if you need to make a commit to multiple files at once, instead of each file gets a separate commit.
    - Dan: Personally won't use it. Used to the simple GH editor for simple things, and then computer changes + local render. Also would mean people to buy into the VSCode ecosystem, which won't be for everyone.
    - Allen: probably won't use it, especially if it costs money. Prefer docker/container support for local preview
    - Erin: i would also never use it, except for previews (which it currently doesn't allow you to do)
        - There will be a new template that will not rely on jekyll


#### 3. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

- See RFC#18 below

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

- RFC#18 Curriculum Advisory Committees: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/18#rubric
    - goal: document clear goals and authority for maintainers
    - Peter: Rubric looks good, one of the main problems over the years is identifying the limitations and what can/should not be done.
    - Julika: maintainers organize epidodes. but sometimes we reorganize and put things in other episodes. and since things.
        -  shifted and moved around the original episode was deleted
        -  It's about the content not necessarily the episode
        - Erin: I agree with what was said at the last call: it's not about the episode, it's about the content. If you are deleting content, the CAC should approve, but if no content is removed, it does not matter. I will make this clearer in the proposal.
    -  Julika: The SQL course adopted and incorporated materials from another SQL course. Can we do this? what are the IP requirements for doing something like this
            -  Zhian: depends on the licence. no licence would mean all rights reserved and you would need to ask for permission
        -  Julika: what happens when the original lesson changes and we want to keep up with those changes
            -  Zhian: this is more like an "error correction"
        -  Julika: how can we be notified of original text?
            -  Zhian: you would have to periodically check.
    - Olav: Great to have clarification of roles. Is this a document that can be reviewed on e.g. an annual basis?
        - Erin: The idea is that once we have the structure in place, the committees will function relatively independently, so this group would not go back and revise the rubric every year. 
        - Olav: There can be cases that are not covered or cases that need to be modified later.
        - Erin: This is something that we can come back and review, but I don't think it needs to be revised every year though.
    - Allen: a few recent cases: switch from Jupyter Notebooks to JupyterLab, remove brief introduction to Markdown in first episode
        - If something already happened, it already happened        
        - the 3-6 month turn around time might be too slow but sometimes software technologies update, this might be too slow
            - similar to: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/18#issuecomment-895520001
            - main goal is to make sure nothing breaks. so things can go out of schedules. The CAC should also be paying attention to upcomming changes.
    - Lisa: confusion between Curriculum Team and Curriculum Advisory Committee and Advisory Group (Library Carpentry has an Advisory Group
        - Some of this happened because of how the different carpentries group organized
        - There is now a core team for the curriculum
        - The LC advisory group was something separate, the other lesson programs do not have an advisory group. The exec program committee is working on over arching structure. swc will eventually have an advisory committee, but not DC since the DC materials is already grouped by topic
    - Sally: Are we expecting most of the curriculum advisors currently listed to turn over once these CACs are “reactivated”? Could you tell us more about what the recruitment process is going to look like, if that is known yet? Would just love some more background about that side of things
      - A few of the previous CAC members will come back, but there will also be a recruitment phase
      - Erin + Toby will host a discussion session about recruitment.
      - People will apply -- looking for broad range / backgrounds / actively teaching / geogrpahic spread
      - want to make sure the CAC this year will have overlap with new carpentries structure between separate lesson advisory group
  - Lisa: what are the communication methods for phase 1? this will be affect the comfort of the rubric
      - Creating structure and documentation to support CACs
        - Roles and responsibilities of CAC members.
        - Rubric for how decision making is divided between Maintainers and CAC (the subject of this RFC)
        - Bi-directional communication pathways between Maintainers and CACs.
        - Workflow for twice-annual meetings.
        - Planning recruitment and onboarding of new CAC members
      - All of these are currently in development. I will be happy to share the in development docs for this (didn't want to share this right now with everyone to avoid overwhelming). 
      - Right now we have maintainer teams for each lesson so you can @team-name so that you can tag the team. We will have a tag like this for the CAC and there will be a designated point person to watch that tag. We are also working on modes for email-based communication for long-format communication. In the past CACs have had a private email group for organizing meetings. We will also have a public email group for non-github communication. 
   - Lisa: What's the workflow for non-compliance?
       - Haven't given this much thought because to date, most of these large-scale changes at the level of what we want to go to a CAC haven't been getting done because maintainers have been overwhelmed by the scope of these changes. Initial thought was to facilitate decision making process and not about non-compliance. I will be thinking about this moving forward, though.

- RFC#15 Maintainer Guidelines: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15


#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30  min)

- Calendar invite that went out was a mistake (for google meet)
- Peter: What is the process for going through the lesson that need AWS permissions (genomics lesson)?
    - Zhian: You might need to go through Erin, and she might need to set that up for you
    - Sarah: you can do this on your own computer, the main problem is the data is really big, and might be slow for your computer
    - Peter: I have this setup on our super computer, but the lesson is on the cloud instead of sending batch scripts
    - Discussion of the different setups for genomics DC - cyverse / amazon web services / local cluster
    - If you are a maintainer for one of the genomics lesson, we will setup an instance for you. There are also other ways for you to set it up (costs about $2 a day)
    - For instructors: they will get an instance a few days before workshop to run trough things
    - Instructor checkout: teaching demo: you are responsible for setting it up on your own, but you can contact Erin

- https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-example/pull/350
    - Updating styles is a pain, Zhian has started a process to automatically update styles
    - standardized workflow to update styles and issue a PR that comes from a bot
    - every so often there would be a pull request that would need to be checked/managed
    - The GH action will run weekly, but that does not mean you will get a PR + email every week
    - even for new template, there still is a part in the infrastrue that might use this, but in general you would not see this styles PR since the new template will try to only work with the lesson content
    - This is a way to test out this PR idea
    - Please contact Zhian if you would like to test this out

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### For next meeting

- Sept 1 - No co-working sessoin, but please join community discussion about CAC
- We'll have our first few new maintainer clases onboarded by next lesson :)
    - If you are getting a new maintainer for you lesson, please introduce and reach out to them
