## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, March 17

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), Univeristy of Wisconsin-Madison, Docker/Jekyll/Others
- Zhian Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries (Portland, OR, USA), Template

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Drake Asberry (he/him), University of Arizona, Geospatial Vector/Raster
- Zhian Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries (Portland, OR, USA), Template

Timekeeper:
1. 
2. 

Notetaker (please add notes within agenda below):
1. Zhian
2. 

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

 - Sarah Stevens: Docker maintainer meeting went really well! There was a lot of good coordination around focusing on the scope of the lesson and who the audience is. Focused on writing learner profiles.
 - Drake: Most of the geospatial lessons have been pretty stable. One person made an issue on our repo a couple of weeks ago, but it still needs a PR. There are a lot of places where we could improve that and Drake personally doesn't have the time to overhaul that. Excited for the new template. How can we reach out to our other maintainers and check in? 

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

1. Maintainer agreement draft: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/14
    - NOTE: starts at "Active Status" (Most notible changes were moved to the top of the issue)
- Responsibilities
    - Timeline for responding to issues?
    - Drake: the quicker the better, but in general since we are volunteers, a week at least gets you to a weekend to make a comment. 
        - zhian: put  into the contibuting guidelines to say you can expect a response within 2 weeks, and you can @ a member if time lapses
    - When was the last time maintainers have taught this?
        - This would be a good impetus to tie this in to community calls where instructors talk about what worked and what didn't in workshops.
- Active/Alum status
    - Drake: finding out who the active maintainers are is often challenging and it would be good to have the ping system. 
    - Would like feedback on what are good systems for accountability. Current: check in at least once per year via survey sent out end of Q1 each year.
    - Check in would allow prioritization of incoming maintainers
    - LC would like to remove lead maintainer; from Carpentries POV, it's a good system for knowing who to contact.
    - Sarah likes being the central contact point for the Docker lesson.
    - Zhian: would it be too much for one person? Maybe rotations are good?
    - Sarah: maybe clarifying lead roles and planning yearly meeting.
    - Sarah: having a rotation might lead to volun-telling people.
    - Dan wanted to avoid a one-year commitment.
    - Zhian: call it a liaison/steward/point instead of lead
    - SOLUTION: Quarterly check-in for liaison/steward/point
 - Should lead maintainer coordinate a quarterly meeting and report up? 
    - Sarah: Quarterly meetings may be too much as it is. Maybe a quarterly asynch checkin. 
        - look into github discussions
 - Stepping down: retirement process and reactivation
     - getting back in depends on availability in lesson. 
     - short periods of absence should be relatively simple to reincorporate
     - longer periods: show up to meeting
     - epochs: redo onboarding
     - Sarah: Is the reactivation process something that happens often that we need explicit rules for?
     - It has happened and it's a way for people to come back if they left because of life happening
     - Sarah: If I stopped maintaining a lesson, I would feel fine coming back to maintaining it later.
     - This is coming from the idea that "It's okay to leave" vs "It's okay to come back"
     - Transitioniong these guidelines into the new lesson template
         - Transition period of getting issues and PRs in order before lesson template changes
         - Need Alpha testing for core lessons and incubators to make sure what things need to be fixed
     - Coordination of Bug BBQ or Issue Bonanza
         - Depends on lesson stage alpha/beta: six months, stable/core: once a year/18 months
         - Convert coworking corrall to bug bbq and have a sign up for lessons. 
         - Have tags for review for the coworking corral. Random four lessons per month should be enough  for alllessons to be touched. 

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

- how to get maintainers involved in meetings

#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

###### Questions from Co-working session

###### For next meeting

1. LC hosts vote for lead? follow up with LC maintaining role
2. instructors who are maintainers who do not teach, what is their carpentries "status" / voting and election
3. which lessons are actually being taught? do we have a way to track?
