## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, April 21

**Date and time 1:** https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Co-Working+Session&iso=20210421T17
**Date and time 2:** https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Co-Working+Session&iso=20210421T22
**Zoom:**     https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom2?pwd=WmVCOUlPUm1laFk5SUp1UWg5cjhEUT09

   Password is **202020**

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Docker Intro and others
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries, Lesson Template
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries, Jekyll/supporting lesson developers
- Vini Salazar (he/him/his), Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, PSF contributor
- Ryan Avery (he/him/his), Development Seed, Geospatial Python (Alpha)
- Owen Stephens (he/him), Freelance consultant, Library Carpentries OpenRefine

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Phillip Doehle, Oklahoma State University, OpenRefine
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Docker Intro and others
- Lauren Ko, University of North Texas Libraries, Python Novice Inflammation
- Liane Newton, USAGDEV (501(c)(3)) interested newbie here to listen.
- Vini Salazar (he/him/his), Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, PSF contributor
- Drake Asberry, University of Arizona, R Geospatial
---


notes: https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers?edit
rfc: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15


### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

 - Lesson Template currently in Alpha testing. **Contact Zhian (zkamvar@carpentries.org) if you want to be a part of it.**
 - Vini Salazar is working on helping out any/all Python lessons until end of May.

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

- Maintainer agreement draft: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
    - Proposed many points in RFC
        - individual yearly check-in - once a year on the mailing list or slack channel all maintainers respond to a survey) - to plan for how many people are maintaining each lesson
        - lesson yearly check-in - lessons of the month (~5 lessons/month allows for each lesson to have focus at least once per year)
        - lesson lead maintainer - From Library Carpentry, having a point person to message about the lesson, liaison
        - stepping down & alumni status - planning for people who can't be active, and avoiding diffusion of responsiwebility 
        - re-activation from alumni to active status
        - other resources for maintainers (e.g co-working corral---first Wednesday of the month)

##### Maintainer Alumni Status

Toby: Regarding reactivation and status, there is a theme of a sense of guilt (across OS communities) of not being able to contribute to these kind of things. Having a low-effort way of saying "I need to step back" will help alleviate this guilt. 
Dan: Some of the comments that were brought up: the designation of "Absent Maintainer." Are these statuses that someone will opt-into or are they assigned based on work? 
Sarah: I think there has to be two ways to become inactive: declaration and demonstration. It feels not great to be shoved into inactive, but it can help give people a decision of whether they want to stay active.
Toby: In my time here, I've been aware of a case of one maintainer who knew they were going to be inactive in terms of parental leave, but we did not have an official way of doing it. I really would like this solution to happen so that we have a way for folks like this to step away.
Ryan: Where is this information stored? 
Dan: At the moment, there is no designation of inactive. It might be offensive to actually label people as active or inactive (or even absent). Calling it alumni can be a better designation. This would affect your ability to merge things in the repo. Changing permissions: you don't want a situation where there are too many people with write access to coordinate responsibilities
Zhian: On the many people having write permissons to a repo, it also is a security issue. If one person is compromised then it is a risk to the whole repo.

##### Lead Maintainer

Dan: I really just wanted a point person; I agree that we don't want a heirarchy
Sarah: People intearct a lot better if you give them some sort of structure. Having a point person is one way to get there. We could have this a lesson-by-lesson decision about how they communicate to the community. Having mechanisms to encourage or suggest conversations within the maintainer pool can help with stale lessons. 
Dan: That flows into why we came up with the lesson of the month idea so that we have a period where a lesson is concretely up for review, so that if you are planning one meeting per year, that's a way to do it. The other thing: Dan's role is still growing at the moment and communication needs to be clarified.
One of the goals of this was "How do we condense 161 into fewer people?"

Dan: How would you like to be managed as a maintainer? How would you like to deal with inactive maintainers?

Toby: You mentioned the possibility about a different name for the lead maintainer role.  Calling it lead maintainer made sense because it exists in LC.  Clearly this name has a perception that it introduces a hierarchy.  Reading through it doesn't seem to be the intention, but rather to have a point person.  Owen also said this was fairly true for LC.  Question for maintainer community? What would a more appropriate name for this person (regardless of if you think it should be introduced) based on the responsibilities we are talking about?

Ryan: In early stage alpha lesson without much adoption, so not a lot of other folks involved.  Someone who manages some of the other lessons might have more thoughts.  I think it is okay to message someone if they haven't been active and check in with them and how we can support them.  Who steps into a lead role if there is a lead role that organizes the community of maintainers? is a tough question.
Dan: Do you like the idea of having lessons of the month?  Should the Maintainer community lead reach out and help coordinate with the lessons of the month?
Ryan: Could be good to try.  Sometimes people might be too busy but like the idea as it provides the opportuniuty to spotlight lessons.

Owen: Echo the idea that lessons might be different based on where they are in the lesson lifecycle.  Having enough people on the repo that you can talk to since some people are busy.  Four people who are occasionaly active is probably better than one person who tries to get it eventually.  Numbers might be more important than roles. Push to indviduals for important things.

Sarah: So many thoughts! RE inactive/checkin: I like the idea that it's a once-yearly checkin as opposed to targeted based on activity/inactivity. It is a pretty low bar to reply to an email once per year so that we can recruit new maintainers for a specific repository. I like the idea that Owen posted about people over roles. There is the concern that if there are too many people, decisions may be difficult. I have mixed feelings about different lessons going at different speeds. There are urgent issues that exist on the old, mature lessons that end up being stale for years. Things like git and github: there are changes that happens that bring up major issues. There's a lot of discussion, but not a lot of merging. 

Zhian: Agree the lifecycle of the lesson is still a lifecycle.  Like a fungus, it keeps growing dependingon nutrient availbity. the environment changes.  We have seen two major changes in the last year alone.  With the git lessons the branch name, in R stringsasFactors change. Was able to do an analysis of lessons and make PRs.  These larger broader changes to the lessons need clear sturcutre of organization.  These are the maintainers who are active on this lesosn, they know they can meet, communication protocol, they can make decisions on this.  At the moment it is the wildwest.  Everyone is in to do the good of the lesson but no clear rules for how to make these decisions. When it comes to bigger changes it has to be a bigger community decision and that is where structure for the maintainers is coming from.  That is where having clear communication about who is active and having a group of active maintainers to rely on.

Dan: Do we need more people? Currently 5?

Toby: With a current lack of agreement from maintainers about how much time can be dedicated, there really shouldn't be an upper-limit on the number of people to work on the lesson. We have a responsibility on the CT side to make it possible to add new people to lessons to make it sustainable via onboarding. I believe this policy that Dan in attempting to introduce is [zhian missed this, sorry]. I want to urge two things: 1. Anybody who is a maintainer on this call who has not responded to the RFC thread (https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15), please do. The discussion can only be made better by getting more perspectives (positive/negative). 2. What else can I do for you?

Vini: suggestion - link RFCs repo to Curriculum Development Handbook and/or The Carpentries Handbook

Maintainer Onboarding addition - watch the RFC repo 

Dan: Toby and CT, please think about communication channels between instructors and maintainers. Most of the maintainers are not instructors. 


------------

(Second meeting)

Phillip: I think these proposals a great and I would like some sort of system for stepping back. Some way to signal to the other maintainers and having a point of contact for organizing and working with your fellow maintainer to coordinate responsibilities. 

Zhian: lack of structure breeds inequality.

Sarah: "The tyranny of structurelessness".

Dan: For Core Team, more incentives for the maintainers would be really beneficial. Actually track which lessons are being taught would be a good metric of motivation to put in a newsletter/clippings for the maintainers. 

Sarah: I like the idea of a newsletter to communicate things that are pertinent to the community. E.G lesson development study group (zhian: lesson infrastructure updates), or news on lesson development sprints.

Dan: there are a couple of ways this can work... write it as a blog post and ping the maintainers when it gets released so that it can be public and people can link.

Sarah: I like the idea of a blogpost, much like the lesson incubator developer spotlight. 

Zhian: scrape up numbers, and then invite maintainers to add to the materials. totally find with just a blog post of numbers. But this is something that can be done on a schedule/regular basis. Old SWC posts talked aobout really specific detials, and in aggregate, you and SEE the progress. And also gives a means to point to job done

Sarah: for contributions, I really liked the all-contributors addition Toby used here - https://github.com/tobyhodges/lesson-sprint-recommendations.

Dan: How would you define "inactive" for someone who has demonstrated inactivity? 

Sarah: I think perhaps it should be on the yearly check-in. If someone does not respond, then that should default to "inactive". But maybe there should be a way for a maintainer to signal for help needing more people to jump on maintenance. It might be a process: 1) send email to fellow maintainers, if no response, 2) send email to Dan and Zhian

Dan: there should be a field to signal that you are ready for retirement (prioritizing recruitment in the right places/avoiding people feeling like they need to stay on for the good of the lesson). Phil, does this occur in the LC world?

Phil: Since I'm fairly new, I'm not sure.

Lauren: I've grappled with if I step down from being a maintainer, what would happen? There seems to be only one other person who's there when you ping them. In the stable lesson, for the time I put in the lesson, it feels like the benefit is not clear. 

Dan: the other example from the RFC is that there's a lot of FAQ materials that come up. 

Zhian: re: "extras" + "additional content": this will be split into 2 different modes "for instructors" and "for learners". Will be presented in different ways. There will still be the extra's menu but will be less cluttered. The instructor notes will be weaved inside the lesson material.

Vini: some kind of guidelines for each repo.

Lauren: we do hace contributing guidelines

Drake: these seem to be a good step.

Drake: more sustainable to make lessong inactivity blameless.

Liane: Knowing who has been teaching the lesson lately would be helpful for new Carpentries teachers and help to channel them toward joining Maintainers.

Zhian: thank you, all the volunteers, matintainers, instructors, for building the community. None of this would be here without you.

Lauren: when would we expect the first yearly ping email?

Dan: before the lesson template release to make sure people and lessons have as much support they need

Zhian: Will roll this out slowly, most of the work will be on my side. Most of the work will be around coordination. Maintainers will not need to do most of the technical changes.

##### Dan's Summary / replies / thoughts / things for further discussion / etc

- From feedback: "No exclusion or value judgement, but lack of structure is bad for everyone".

- "Lead" maintainer: change the name, be more specific on responsibilities without creating hierarchy.
- Agree do not want things to be too strict. The reference was from trainer's guidelines so a lot of the initial wording is similar. Evolution of "yearly ping" comes from the trainer's point system. But this point system is not feasible for maintainers (nor is a good idea). But need SOME structure so a yearly "ping" seems like a good compromise. At the same time, agreeing to be a maintainer for next year does not mean you're bound to this decision, you are free to stop any time you want, or pause. But, some structure is needed for community planning.
- Maybe set up "core" guidelines, for everyone. and then maybe put in an optional set of guidelines for each repo to adopt if they want more structure like "lead" / what responsibilities are, etc for people to self organize and give examples of concrete duties for maintainers
    - I suspect that things are too unspecified for people to know what can and should be done.
- What can the core team help with:
    - maintainers with some sort of acknowledgement and incentive. Have a newsletter (maybe twice a year. or quarterly or something) about which lessons are taught, would need more data from core level on which actual lessons are used. Use this information to tell maintainers how they're contributing to the overall organization
        - List maintainers all in a central location to give credit.
    - Remind them about benefits of being a maintainer (e.g., voting rights, etc)
- Yearly ping asks about "health" and if you are looking for replacement and stepping down.
    - More than just a "yes I will do it for another year", as this simple question does not point towards burnout.
    - So we can help looking for new maintainers more proactively, versus reflexively


#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

- See Topic of the Month

#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

###### Questions from Co-working session

###### For next meeting

Dan: Talk to Erin about instructor -> maintainer "rights" e.g.,, voting

Fix time zone change in Meeting email. DST messed things up.
