### Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, October 20

**Zoom:**     https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom2?pwd=WmVCOUlPUm1laFk5SUp1UWg5cjhEUT09
   Password is **202020**

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead, Maintainer Onboarding Lesson
- Michael Culshaw-Maurer (he/him), Carpentries, Not Actually A Maintainer
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Many Incubator Lessons
- Lisa McAulay (she/her), UCLA Library, Git and LC Intro  

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead, Maintainer Onboarding Lesson
- Val Gartner (she/her), Duke University, Wrangling Genomics Lesson
- Michael Culshaw-Maurer (he/him), Carpentries, Not Actually A Maintainer
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Erin Becker (she/her), Carpentries, nominally Genomics Overview Maintainer
- Alycia Crall (she/her), Carpentries, Director of Community
- Monah Abou Alezz (he/him), San Raffaele Hospital, Maintainer Spreadsheets for Ecologists
- Rodolfo "Rudy" Montez Jr. (he/him), Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Maintainer Astronomy lesson
- Ulf Schiller (he/him), Clemson University, DC Image Processing

---

### Co-working session

---

### Quick Links

Notes: https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers?edit
RFCs (Request for Comments): https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
Maintainer Resources + Meeting notes: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (20 min)

- Alycia Crall: Community Development Program
    - Will be implementing [a new program to provide support for community management; see this blog post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/10/announcing-community-development-program/)
    - Interested in hearing from maintainers about how they can best be supported through this program (e.g., resource enhancement facilitation is currently part of [Community Facilitators program; see this blog post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/09/introducing-community-facilitators-program/))
    - Have interviewed Daniel but others welcome to [provide feedback using this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfOcg7I8WKM5aYcN47bHLY4hab7kTWztsgSWH4iYUUx3o0UYQ/viewform?usp=sf_link)
    - Community development team is developing a program to combine 3 existing programs (champions + regional coordinator + facilitator)
        - already have regional communities and domains

- Michael Culshaw-Maurer: Task force to generate recommendations on official lesson publication process
    - Here is a [blog post introducing the Task Force](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/10/lesson-publication-task-force/) 
    - A more detailed description is available in the [task force charter](https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/blob/main/2021/Lesson-Publication/Lesson-Publication-Charter.md)
    - If you are [interested in participating in the task force, you can fill out this form](https://forms.gle/PyX58kfE8HdAhr8h9); also feel free to contact me with any questions
    - Official lesson publication process, there isn't a good followed process for this, e.g., zenodo
        - not well described and process has not been used
    - Focused task force (i.e., limited number meetings, focused topics)
        - Scheduling and timing of lesson publications (6-mo? 1-year? milestone?)
            - what is the process of publication going to look like wrt time
        - Who is taking care of this schedule (maintainers? CaC?)
        - How to determine authorship and acknowledgement (contributions, time since contributions)
            - how do you consider authors and contributions
            - what about the original authors of the lesson after many years of changes
        - Give more agency to the community
        - How to ensure publications are useful (e.g., CV, resume, etc) beyond a formality
    - Lisa: having publications in some interval is good. I also put them in my CV/resume for academic packet
    - Michael: maintainers put in a lot of work, but do not show up in traditional authorship credit.
    - Michael: want to make it minimially invasive for the people involved.
    - Dan: reaching out directly to people will help.
        - Don't feel like you are forcing people to do this when you ping them.
        - Non-response does not mean people are not interested.
        - Important to find a non-academic in this TF. 
    - Micahel: we want to prevent this TF from getting too huge, but definitely have a good representation of domains.
    - Dan: is there a way for maintainers outside of the TF to communicate that's on GitHub?
    - Michael: [TF charter in the repo](https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/blob/main/2021/Lesson-Publication/Lesson-Publication-Charter.md)
    - Michael: any kind of metric you can pull (e.g., num commits) doesn't tell the full story and might not always point to authorship
    - Erin: all of our core lessons have already been published at least once
        - Ordering have done: alphabetical, num commits, number new commits since last publication
        - lessons that don't have significant changes: loose authorship
        - We do want to make it as independant a metric as possible
        - want to be able to account for discussions
        - do not want only maintainers generating this list
    - Rudy: have some systerm of "different tiers of authors" been considered? or how would that even be implemented
    - Michael: Splitting authors and acknowledgements
        - some baseline metric you can modify from there is probably the way to move forward
        - also something easy to implement
    - Ulf: RSE community software citation: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-1257
    - Michael: [here is an issue](https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/issues/26) to discuss the Task Force topics asynchronously


#### 3. Topic of the Month (30 min)

History: RFC#15 was huge and there were several feedback threads spawned. This RFC was split off into more sigularly focused RFCs

These will be implemented late January/early February. **Most important one is RFC#19**, which is the active status opt in, which solves a lot of problems with planning.

1. RFC#15 has been refactored and split into separate RFCs: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
    - RFC#19: Maintainer Guidelines: Yearly Check-ins for Maintainers
        - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/19
        - You can opt-in if you miss the email
        - You will still be on all the communication channels, unless you take yourself out of it.
    - RFC#20: Maintainer Guidelines: Alumni and Active status
        - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/20
        - Where is alumni status recorded?
            - Dan: probably in the lesson itself, not AMY
            - Lisa: this is the weakest part of this RFC;
              there's a lot of places to record names and that goes out of sync.
              Need a more concrete place to put all of this.
            - Zhian: maybe look into citation.cff file: https://citation-file-format.github.io/
            - Dan: to Michael: how would you like us to document authors/maintainers
            - Michael: AMY is a big database, there are some things tracked in GitHub
                - Maybe treams/roles for individual people? DC has 44 teams at the moment
                - Should think about figuring out 1 place to document all this (similar to Lisa's concerns)
                - Zhian: important to thinka bout what do we want out of this? and what the maintainers get out of this.
                    - AMY or GH doesn't seem to matter, as long as there's 1 concrete and documented way
                    - Lisa: the implmentation needs to be specified (maybe another RFC on how to do this.)
                - Dan: to Zhian: would we have an issue with too many people having access to repos (for secrity reasons?)
                    - Zhian: there shouldn't be an issue since teams have really granular controls
            - Michael: teams API: https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/teams
                - https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/teams#list-team-members
    - RFC#21: Maintainer Guidelines: Leverage other maintainers for help
        - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/21
        - Bluring of maintiner duties?
            - Lisa: this problem is better than being alone and helps build a community
    - RFC#22: What do you want from the "community lead"?
        - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/22
        - Lisa: thank you for the meetings and being avavliable for help + questions
            - Onboarding was great, and RFCs are good
            - this stuff is probably enough.
        - Rudy: some kind of stretegic overview for maintainers to be aware of
            - changes that will affect the core lessons
        - Zhian: those lessons changes are my job.
            - there will be ample time for people to know about and implement
            - You will need to clone a new repository on to your computer instead of the current repo
            - Alycia and Michael's projects will all combine together. they're all realted to one another
        - Rudy: Is there a current repo for the new lesson template?
        - Zhian: it was probably not presented in onboarding, but you can message Zhian if you want to know more about the upcomming changes
        - Zhian: the documenation can be found at: https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/ (you can contact Zhian for the "for nerds" documentation)
        - Rudy: thanks for making the transision really simple for us maintainers.

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)
- Covered in ToM

#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (10 min)

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### For next meeting

Add issue in task force repo as an RFC in the maintainers repo

