## Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, Jan 20

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Maintainer Community Lead (aka all the lessons)
- Zhian Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer(zkamvar@carpentries.org)
- Jesse Lambertson (lambertson@uchicago.edu)

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Maintainer Community Lead (aka all the lessons)
- Zhian Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer (zkamvar@carpentries.org)
- Christina Koch (she/her), UW Madison, DC Ecology SQL + Docker sort of
- Lauren Ko, UNT Libraries, SC python-novice-inflammation

Timekeeper:
1. Jesse Lambertson
2. Christina Koch

Notetaker (please add notes within agenda below):
1. Zhian
2. Zhian

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

- https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources
    - This repo was renamed from maintainer-minutes
- Did a quick overall count of lesson maintainers
- See topic of the month for maintainers overview and maintainer guideline draft of points
- Setup next month's working co-working corral :yeehaw: (Feb 3)
    - Note from Christina: I will probably not be able to attend this month. :cry: but I should be back in March!

#### 4. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

##### T1. Lesson maintainers broad overview

1. GDPR concerns with maintainer dataset + names

2. 
   | Repos per Maintainer  | Number of Maintainers |
   | --------------------: | ---------------------: |
   | 1                     | 129                    |
   | 2                     |  25                    |
   | 3                     |   6                    |
   | 4                     |   1                    |

   Jesse: Is this only SWC?
   Dan: No, this is all of the Carpentries.
   Christina: The first column is number of repositories per maintainer and the second column is number of maintainers? (Words swapped, all rejoiced)
   
   ```
          0        20        40        60        80        100       120
   M    +-+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
   a    |                                                                       |
   i  1 + =================================================================     +
   n    |                                                                       |
   t  2 + ============-                                                         +
   a    |                                                                       |
   i  3 + ===                                                                   +
   n    |                                                                       |
   e  4 + -                                                                     +
   r    |                                                                       |
   s    +-+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
          0        20        40        60        80        100       120
   
                                     Num Maintainers
   ```
   *rotated by Trevor Keller to utilize better x- than y-resolution*

3. 54 repositories. 2.1Gb
4. Yearly and weekly commit counts: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/C8H5LN44V/p1611159532001500
5. Code: https://github.com/chendaniely/maintainers

- The overarching question: is a repository healthy and maintained?
- Main take away:
    - The number of commits are pretty low because most of us are in lesson maintenance mode,
      so the number of commits will be much lower than the early days. Healthy doesn't mean very active!
    - Unfortunately, this doesn't help with the question.
    - Want to limit the number of repository metrics
    - Suggestions from Christina
        - Response time to new issues/PRs
        - Measure total number of repo actions (issues created, PRs created, comments added) instead of commits
    - This may involve a discussion with the lesson squad about what health looks like. Do we expect a lot of changes long-term? 

##### T2. Update repository feeds

TODO for Carpentes core members: Need to update the JSON files to account for these repos.

- Repos listed in feed vs lessons listed on website
  https://github.com/datacarpentry/rr-publication/
  https://github.com/datacarpentry/rr-organization1/
  https://github.com/datacarpentry/rr-intro/
  https://github.com/datacarpentry/rr-automation/
  https://github.com/datacarpentry/rr-version-control/
  https://github.com/datacarpentry/rr-literate-programming/
  https://github.com/swcarpentry/hg-novice/
  https://github.com/swcarpentry/hpc-novice/
  https://github.com/librarycarpentry/23-rd-things/
  https://github.com/librarycarpentry/lc-dig-pres/
    - per François: rr-* lessons are on hold at this time
    - per Chris Erdmann: lc-dig-pres can be depricated, possible 23-rd-things as well (pinged Tim Dennis)

- Listed in feed, but at least they are not under the dc, swc, lc orgs (from the GitHub url)
  https://github.com/carpentrieslab/python-aos-lesson/
  https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/
    - python-aos-lesson should probably moved somewhere else since it's under "lab"

##### T3. Maintainer Agreement

::::::: info

These will eventually go in official RFCs. This is heavily adapted from the Trainer Agreement.

:::::::::::::

- The CoC: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#reporting-guidelines
- Values in our online maintenance presence: https://carpentries.org/values/
- Provide a welcoming and supportive environment for contributors, especially new ones.
::: info
  - TODO Q: Instructor checkout process? Does it involve creating a PR or issue?
:::
- Connect principles from the instructor process with the lesson materials
    - > It is important to keep up-to-date with the [maintainer] community
- Update and changes to underlying language and packages used
::: info
- TODO Q what should "active" status entail?: in order to be an active maintainer:
  - Any minimum units of service? E.g., attend 1 maintainer meeting each quarter/year/half-year?
  - Hosting a corral can count as more?
  - 1 year to implement any carpentries-wide lesson template/style changes
  - Topic-of-the-month
  - Some turnaround time for new issues related to lesson content (ones not related for maintainer TODO lists or notes)
  - Turnaround time for new PRs, either being merged or addressed.
    - Maybe separate considerations depending on size of PR
  - Check-ins can be at the lesson level, instead of each individual (each lesson should have at least 1 person check-in a meeting once a year)
    - can be done via meeting or email (with other members CC'ed)


Christina: This is defninitely tricky. People want to be involved, but things happen. 

Idea: people write out their own commitment each year and self-define what their goals are. At the end of the year,
do a self-evaluation of how you did. If you don't do this once a year (say), you drop to alumni status. 
[Setting intentions](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/01/carpentries-executive-director-new-years-message/).
Learn from other people's challenges.
:::

Considerations for having lead maintainer communicate about progress on lesson.
Dan is counting repository interactions at the moment. Doesn't want to use metrics as a way to score people.
Library Carpentry has the lead system.
In terms of the metrics, you are looking for human ways of engagement.
We want to reflect the culture of learning and support.
Seeing that things are happening is good, but judging people on what's happening in the repository is a slippery slope.

maintainers do not have discrete time events (like the trainers).

Idea: reminder to maintainers to either opt-out/opt-in to a response

::::::::::::::::::::: info 
- Any Membership Agreement or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) attachments?
  - This may be less of an issue since the lessons are in maintenance mode
  - Having a time where the group is able to be accountable for each other really helps.
  - It would be helpful to have a method for co-organizing a sprint (similar to the co-working corral). 
  - Lead maintainer system would really help with this. 
  - Idea: cross-lesson support request based on maintainer activity?

::::::::::::::::::::::::

- TODO What is the relationship between an instructor and maintainer?
  - They have been an instructor in the past, but do not necessarily need to be an active instructor? (need to confirm with Erin)
  - How does lesson maintenance relate to the Carpentries definition for Voting

- Responsibilities that do not count
  - Reading meeting minutes posted
  - Emails and/or slack notifications
  - Keeping up-to-date with changes in the language/installation instructions/packages used in lesson
  - > Providing feedback

- > The Carpentries Core Team needs an accurate understanding of [maintainer] availability in order to plan [....]
  - If you are no longer able to provide active status, see alumni role


##### T4. Maintainer Alumni Status

- Contact team@carpentries.org
- Alumni are *not* able to:
  - Write access to the lesson
  - anything else?
- Alumni may:
  - "approve"/review a PR
  - attend/participate in all maintainer communication channels
  - anything else?

A maintainer who wishes to "re-activate" their "active" status:
- < 3 months no requirements - contact team@carpentries.org to request reinstatement
- 3-12 months: meet with Director of XXXXX to catch up on latest news & discuss plans for re-activating
- 12 months: Review maintainer guidelines, attend a maintainer meeting, catch up, discuss
  - maybe also something with the maintainers with the lesson they will be joining?
    - Send a PR for any carpentries wide changes (styles, templates, etc)
    - review and approve of XXXXX PRs
    - Assuming there is "space"
  - Lauren: someone may want to become active and this may be an opportunity for other maintainers to recruit maintainers for their lessons. 

##### T5. main take aways

- Do not want to create artifical metrics
    - Keeping score and counting "units" of service will be difficult because we're in maintence mode
    - maintainers do not have any descrete time events
- Keeping track/hearing back from 161 maintainers is not feasible
    - 54 is (relatively) more sensible, and rationale to follow LC for "lead maintainer" for all lessons
    - "point person" is less like hierarchical language. 
    - How responsible are they for people? Would they actually handle communication between community and maintainers, or (better), just being representatives.

#### 5. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

#### 6. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

- Christina hosted a discussion themed around her lesson and it went really well! Will try again and if it goes well, will write up a blog post / recommend to other maintainers.

- Add to flight rules: 
  https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/C8H5LN44V/p1609861504076600
    - How to update styles
    ```bash
    git checkout -b update-styles
    git pull https://github.com/carpentries/styles
    # FIX MERGE CONFLICTS
    git push -u origin update-styles
    ```
    create a pull request.
    - How to checkout a github pull request
    e.g. checking out pull request #25 into a branch called pr-25
    ```bash
    git fetch origin pull/25/head:pr-25
    git checkout pr-25
    ```
        - https://stackoverflow.com/a/30584951/2752888
        - https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/checking-out-pull-requests-locally
        - https://usethis.r-lib.org/articles/articles/pr-functions.html (in R).

###### Questions from Co-working session

###### For next meeting

- Zhian to present topic of the month re: lesson template
