# Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, June 16
1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Peter Hoyt (he/him), OKState, Genomics Organisation; spreadsheet-ecology-lesson
- Drake Asberry (he/him), University of Arizona, Raster and Vector Geospatial Data in R 
- Angela Li (she/her), Princeton, (Previous) Maintainer Community Lead, (Previous) R-socialsci
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, OpenRefine-ecology-lesson
- Vini Salazar (he/him), University of Melbourne, PSF grantee

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Several lessons in the incubator
- Annajiat Alim Rasel (he/him), Brac University, Python SocSci, LC-R

---

### Quick Links

Notes: https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers?edit
RFCs (Request for Comments): https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15


### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

 - Lesson Template currently in Alpha testing. **Contact Zhian (zkamvar@carpentries.org) if you want to be a part of it.**
 - "Formalising The Carpentries Community Roles & Support Structure"
     - https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/05/formalising-community-roles/

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

1. What can we do to make maintainer's lives easier?
    - How can we handle issues/PRs coming from instructor checkout?
        - These are usually very low quality issues/PRs that do not get followed up and linger in the repo
            - A lot of times these are first PRs. is there a way to flag to tag as first time? it will help to guide an answer/review.
            - Most pull requests come in the `gh-pages` branch. Maybe a way to automatically remind them to set up a different branch.
            - Talk to trainers group: during maintainer onboarding, talk to instructors on how to make maintainers' lives easiers.
            - Less-taught lessons don't get so many novices PRs.
            - Instructors ask: I want to make a contribution for an issue that's old (~2 years), is that still active?
            - Difference in alpha vs beta lessons.
            - Some people in checkout make good PRs, but some just want to 'check the box' and don't finish their PRs
            - Originally trainers made more changes because there was active development to be done. Today lessons are more stable, so maybe push to Incubator?
            - Maybe not every instructors need to know how to create PRs. A well-documented issue may enough. However, an issue to fix a typo should rather be a PR.
            - Maybe people are being 'overly supportive' by not closing issues? So they hang there for months/years. Sometimes needs to go back to review the history and that's complicated.+1
            - Giving people credit for the PRs is difficult and may require a lot of Git knowledge.
            - Having a lot of issues and PRs hanging around for many years adds a lot of noise and difficult for people to see which issues are higher priority than others.
            - Maybe having a more assertive posture for maintainers to close issues/PRs may be good.+1
            - Issues templates in GitHub can provide check boxes for contributions. Bots may also be an idea.
            - Maybe an 'expiry date' (1 year?) for closing issues/PRs, as a way to clear the backlog. They can always be re-opened.+1
            - Not concerned with "low quality" changes, can ask for more information and/or close issues
            - Incubator lessons: more concerned with not enough
            - Dont' want to raise the bar to contributing
            - For checkout: instead of generating a new issue/pr, you can comment on an existing one

2. What does a good issue look like? How can we nudge folks into writing a better issue.
    - Is setting rules too scary? e.g., https://github.com/yihui/knitr/issues/new
        - There is an issue template currently in place. It may be a good starting point.
        - Checking boxes may be a good incentive.
        - Modify wording to 'yihui/knitr' issue template.
        - Challenge is to create an agreement to follow the guidelines without creating a barrier/cognitive load
        - not all "low quality" issues may be from checkout
        
#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

- RFC#15 New Maintainer Guidelines: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
    - Would be nice to have instructions for maintainers on how to handle issues that have been opened for a long time.
    - Maybe all of that will go into the Maintainers' RFC (things must be voted and incorporated)
    - The Maintainers' Handbook is currently a rough guideline, but nothing formal
    - Issue templates allow labels, if you're making a PR/issue for checkout, use this template so this label shows up.
    - Problem with using labels: can only be added by Maintainers. Solution: templates can automatically include labels.
    - GitHub docs on issue templates: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository


#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

- Maybe make sprints after each Instructor Onboarding for doing the checkout contributions on a specific lesson.
    - An issue is that people don't immediately make the contributions after Instructor Training
    - Contributions can be anywhere, Carpentries Incubator, etc.
    - There's a difference between monitoring stable lessons (in maintainer mode) vs younger lessons (in development mode).
    - Use Instructor Onboarding as a way to get 'good first issue' and easier issues out of way so maintainers can focus on bigger issues.
        - Tagging system would help with that.
        - tags being something that new contributors and maintainers know about this
        - "what makes a good first issue" tag so people can go fix
            - these should be very specific, not general and broad.
- Will be planning a Git workshop for maintainers in August after next round of maintainer onboarding
- 
#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

1. There were some jekyll issues in the Docker lesson. please see:
    -  https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/docker-introduction
    -  https://github.com/benbalter/jekyll-remote-theme/pull/87/files
    -  https://github.com/carpentries/styles
    -  Issue was isolated to just the Docker lesson, had to do with master -> main branch changes
    -  specific to the docker jekyll image to render a lesson

#### For next meeting

- Going in and fixing the master -> main branch name in the git repo
- Sarah's git branching incubator lesson: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/git-novice-branch-pr
