# Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, July 21

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Genomics Overview
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, OpenRefine Ecology
- Drake Asberry (he/him), University of Arizona, Raster/Vector Data Geospatial
- Zhian Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure
- Lauren Ko, University of North Texas, Python Novice Inflammation

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Lisa McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, Library Carpentry - LC-Git (New maintainer)
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, Data Science Center - lc-shell (New maintainer)
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries, Genomics Overview
- Kat Koziar, University of California, Riverside, SWC git-novice
- Tobias Busch (he/him), University of Oslo, R for Economics (New maintainer)
- Katy Felkner (she/her), University of Southern California Information Sciences Institute, DC-ecology-sql

---

### Quick Links

Notes: https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers?edit
RFCs (Request for Comments): https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
Maintainer Resources + Meeting notes: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

 - New Maintainers:
     - Annajiat Alim Rasel, Data Carpentry: Data Analysis and Visualization with Python for Social Scientists
     - Julika Mimkes, Library Carpentry: SQL
     - Luis Villanueva, Data Carpentry: Data Cleaning with OpenRefine for Ecologists
     - Tobias Busch, Data Carpentry: Data Analysis and Visualization in R for Ecologists
 - Maintainer Onboarding starting
 - Will be coordinating with Toby on using the monthly co-working sessions with the incubator repos
 - Curriculum advisors project (Erin)
     - Will be open for the next month or so
     - [Curriculum Advisory Committee consultation rubric](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ifrEbkqqBK0Nc6A6HlcWtiu_SjOoFbc-HjfWkLk9nJA/edit)
         - Work on reviving the CAC
         - In the past (from structured interviews): scope and roll from maintainers not defined
         - Errors and software were updated, but did not know about authority for large content changes (new packages, sections, etc)
         - CAC was created (5-8 people with domain expertise) oversee overall direction of curriculium (e.g., all the ecology DC, all of swc stack)
         - Met every 6 months
         - In 2018: oversaw large changes in geonomics and geospatial (e.g., base r plotting to geom_sf)
         - Working on reviving the groups and provide sufficient structure
         - CAC consultation rubric: maintainers can elevate issues to the CAC (see link above)
         - Goal is to provide a set of guidelines for what maintainers can elevate to the CAC and what maintainers can take care of without seeking broader guidance. 
         - After today, this will be placed as a new RFC and will remain open for another month. 
         - Dan: One maintainer has a problem where someone contributed an entire rewrite and there is no clear way to handle it. How would this isutaiton work?
         - Erin: ideally, the maintainers would be able to elevate this to the CAC and the CAC would be able to provide authoritative advice and guidance. The hope is that these PRs would be avoided through issues instead. Any issues that are existing before the CAC is formed, the recommendation is for the maintainer to say "we are waiting for the CAC formation to handle this" OR they can go with their own judgement. 
         - Dan: People who are not maintainers: should they know that the CAC exists? Should we mention that large changes will need to be approved by the CAC?
         - Erin: I'm currently working on a document that lays out the workflow of how maintainers would be working with the CAC. The CACs will only meet every six months, so there won't be a fast turnaround, but for these large changes, it would make sense.
         - Erin: this will not be the last chance to make comments.
         - Lauren: I like the sound of this. The question: will the maintainers not get a response for up to six months about these kind of changes? 
         - Erin: the types of changes that have gone through the CAC in the past have taken six months to incorporate, but this is a valid question and a solution might be to implementing more asynchronous communication.
         - Lauren: I was thinking about situations where non-maintainers were willing to put in the work for a large change, but didn't want to have to wait six months.
         - Dan: how would this work? 
         - Erin: I have started drafting my thoughts on this: there would be an issue tag to alert the CAC. The maintainers can @cac-team on the issue/PR. One of the CAC members will be responsible for paying attention to that tag and decide if they would persue the issue and add it to the agenda.
         - Luis: Is there feedback from the previous members on how well that worked? Six months is quite a long time because it becomes easier for people to lose track of the issues or getting too deep into the weeds. 
         - Erin: one of the steps in this project will be getting feedback from the previous EC. I definitely think that having more frequent meetings _will_ be an option. 
         - Drake: Regarding maintainer authority: what's in the outline is a big help in and of itself because this is a big issue in our own work because we've been unsure who has the authority to make what changes. Having the CAC meeting every quarter would be a better timeline for the reasons that Luis mentioned.
         - I will incorporate the feedback from this session on the RFC and give appropriate credit. 
         - Lisa: Maintainers maintainers may not be involved in new lesson development. Contrast the maintainer of a lesson with someone who works on an incubator lesson.
         - Lisa: Adding and removing an episode seems like a big thing. but adding an appendix or supplemental should not need a consultation (Kat agrees)
         - Kat: Creating a supplemental, and be more detailed there without needing to consult the CAC
         - Erin: adding supplemental episodes/appendicies should not depend on CAC review

- What are the RFCs
    - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues
    - Place for the curriculum core team and other maintainers to give feedback since not all maintainers can make the monthly meetings

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

1. Maintainer skills. What you learned, what you wish you knew before becoming a maintainer
    - Note: this is something for a skillup that can be done in an hour, not a whole lesson. 
    - Drake: will this be a short version of what you did at carpentrycon? 
    - Dan: that's the rough idea of it. We might have incubator lessons of "this is how you contribute to a repo" and "this is how you preview changes to a repo (from maintainer perspective)"
    - Lauren: Pushing changes to a contributor's pull request is one thing that may be useful. 
    - Dan: this is definitely much easier now! We can make it more explicit, though.
    - Drake: one thing I learned a year after I came on board was how to clone a pull request. Maybe we could have a cheat sheet for common git commands.
    - Dan: we have a flight rules page that starts at this concept: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources/blob/main/FLIGHT_RULES.md. This is a place where you can put your git tricks as well.
    - Jamie/Lisa: what are the social, etiquette, norems, behaviours, how to communicate
        - Dan: you have the power!
        - erin: you don't need full concensus, we usually follow a "looks good to me" rule, so at least 2 people usully see and review the lesson
        - Erin: somethings that look like obvious good fixes, you are free to accept them directly, more subjective things can need
    - Tobias: how do you manage really old issues that have been pilling up
        - erin: for issues that have been open for a long time and have no recent comments, feel free to close
    - Tobias: technical skills: git + github for collaboration with other people
        - Dan: we'll put up more resources for this
        - erin: we'll end up doing a single 3 hour block for onboarding instead of separate hour events
    - Kat: for styles folks: can the gem/bundle file work for gitbash? works on the mac.
        - Dan: jekyll/bundler/gem is a pain, if Zhian was here he'd tell you about the new lesson template and why he's working on a new template

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)

- RFC#15 New Maintainer Guidelines: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15

#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30 min)

 - template update: initial alpha testing finished last month
     - everything was successful, everyone was able to install the stack
     - currently working on backend and adding validators
     - trying to get front end up to date (new look and feel)
     - https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/07/infrastructure-testing/
- overview lesson (e.g., LC-overview)
    - in dc: the overviews pages are under datacarpentry/lessons
    - probably add the lc-overview
    - LC now has a Curriculum Advisory sub-committee, and it's possible that we can ask them to maintain this overview. 
 - Lauren: how will current maintainers be looped in to who the new maintainers to help will be? (needs edit; Zhian does not word well today)
- Kat: swc/lc git lessons more collaboration for lessons that share common tools if something urgent needs to be reviewed

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### For next meeting

- new template things (From Kat):
    - bundler ruby gem on git bash (windows)
    - test with spaces in the path
    - some computers from the university have spaces and can't control the name
