### Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, September 15

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, many incubator lessons (Docker, jekyll, git+python+shell extra, git with branches+PRs)
- Ulf Schiller (he/him), Clemson University, DC Image Processing)
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, OpenRefine Ecology
- Peter Hoyt, (he /him) Oklahoma State University, Organization of spreadsheets Ecology
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, Community Lead
- Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, (LITD)
- Val Gartner (she/her), Duke University, Wrangling Genomics
- Lisa McAulay (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, LC-Intro to Git and LC-Intro to the workshop
- Angela Zoss (she/her), Duke University, LC-Intro to Data/RegEx
- Rodolfo "Rudy" Montez (he/him), Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Foundations of Astronomical Data Science
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), UCLA, LC-Shell
---

### Co-working session

---

### Quick Links

Notes: https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers?edit
RFCs (Request for Comments): https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
Maintainer Resources + Meeting notes: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-resources

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (10 min)

1. New Maintainers! https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/maintainer-welcome-2021/
    2. Ulf: Image processing out of alpha by end of year. Lesson has a pretty good team at the moment. Questions we're working on internally is around new things within numpy that isn't covered within the swc lessons.
    3. Luis: Expand/replace parts of the lesson since the lesosn has not been updated in a while. Currently we do not use some of the more advanced features people use in open refine. Working on working on incorporating some of the LC openrefine materials
    4. "rudy", lesson still in beta. coordinating with someone from The Carpentries
    5. Angela: lesson has history and getting "up to speed" is going to be a challenge
    6. Jamie: trying to work with old issues, and saying "no"
    7. Val: lesson is pretty well maintained and established, there are a few PRs that seem okay to accept.
3. Maintainer Onboarding: onboarding curriculum has (finally!) been officially published. https://zenodo.org/record/5504403#.YUECkdNKiv5
    3. maintainers who come to those meetings regularly are authors
    4. Correction: first meeting talked about people attending maintainer meetings were added as authors. If you made a commit to the repo, you were added as an author
4. The Carpentries Lesson Programs have expanded to include curricula that do not teach Git and GitHub, and our checkout process for new Instructors has changed to acknowledge this. We allow trainees to submit feedback and suggested changes to Data Carpentry and Library Carpentry lessons via email, as one part of their checkout.
    5. These emails are handled by a member of the Core Team, who will then open an Issue on the lesson repository on behalf of the trainee. The Core Team will not be able to follow up on these Issues, e.g. by opening a Pull Request or replying to the thread with more information. All such Issues will include a brief introductory statement to distinguish them from contributions made directly via GitHub. See an example of a contribution submitted by email.
    6. You will be given sent a PR from an instructor from checkout that the new trainee sent via email
    7. Sarah: What has changed? new intsructros were always able to submit a PR directly and/or email to core member to pass along

#### 3. Topic of the Month (30-40 min)

1. RFC#15: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15
    2. Sarah: there are a few people who do not like the proposal, so it'll be hard to get things working for everyone.
    3. Do most people seem onboard? In general yes.
    4. Lisa: what parts are going to be separated out?
        5. each of the sub headings will be a separate item for discussion

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (10 min)


#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (30  min)

1. Rudy: what happens if we might need to change out a dataset for our lesson
    2. For the imaging lesson, specifically, this does not need to go to the CAC becaues this lesson is still in beta and not published yet
3. Creating smaller communities within the carpentries (e.g., medicine)
    4. https://cdh.carpentries.org/the-lesson-life-cycle.html
5. CAC applications are out! please consider joining one of the 7 CACs

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### For next meeting
