### Monthly Maintainer's Meeting, January 19, 2021

1st meeting:
Attending (1st Meeting):

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Lesson Maintainer Community lead
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer
- Peter Hoyt (he/him), Oklahoma State University, DC Spreadsheet Ecology, DC Organization Genomics
    - If I am only one to join I can wait until the next meeting this afternoon.
- Kat Koziar, University of California, Riverside, SWC git-novice
- Toby Hodges, he/him/his, The Carpentries, Director of Curriculum
- François Michonneau, The Carpentries, DC R Ecology
- Henry

2nd meeting:
Attending (2nd Meeting): 

- Name (pronouns), Affiliation, Lesson
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Lesson Maintainer Community lead
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), Carpentries, Lesson Infrastructure Technology Developer
- Liz Stokes (she/they), Maintainer Top 10 FAIR Things, Library Carpentry
- Jamie Jamison (she/her), Maintainer lc-shell lesson
- Annajiat

### Agenda:

#### 1. Introductions (5 min)

#### 2. Updates from Carpentries team (30 min)

1. Reminder RFC#19: Maintainer Guidelines: Yearly Check-ins for Maintainers
    - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/19
    - Summary: this was trying to address the problem of knowing who are _active_ maintainers for lessons. One of the solutions was to send out a yearly ping to provide a mechanism for maintainers to either (a) opt-in (b) announce that they would like reduced responsibilities or (c) not respond.
    - This will help with recruitment of new maintainers because we will know what lessons will need help
    - This will also help with current maintainers because they will know who should be responsive.
    - Tomorrow: everyone who is tagged as a maintainer in AMY will get a link to a survey where the main option will be to say "yes I will be a maintainer for the next year", or "yes I will stay on for the next year, but will be moving out of the role soon", or "no I will not be a maintainer in the next year". 
    - Those who are moved into alumni status will no longer have write privileges to the repository
    - Re-activating would be to contacting Dan or Erin. 
- Comments
    - Kat: I think this is a good idea. I've been on the Git lesso for a while and I can tell you who have been active, but we have a lot of people who are listed, some of whom I have never seen in the 4-5 years I've been on the lesson. This is especially crucial for the aspect of having new maintainers so that I can have more people to bounce ideas off of when I have a question. 
    - Henry: It's a good idea for the same reasons that Kat brought up, especially for the aspect of in-kind collaboration. 
    - Dan: This is also another way to preempt the transition to the new lesson infrastructure. 
    - Zhian: maintainers will not need to change lesson content, the transision will be heavily focsed on not having the maintainers do too much. it will be gradual and guided.
    - Kat: Question about the new lesson infrastructure (especially around dependencies in windows)
        - link to lesson template: https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-development-training/
        - Link to documentation for new infrastructure: https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/
    - Jamie: If we didn't get the email to opt in, is there a way to indicate that? 
    - Dan: the actual survey has not been sent out yet, but the larger point is: if you did end up missing it, then when you do try to work with the repo and you realize you don't have write access anymore, contact Erin or Daniel. The other safeguards are that it will stay open for a month and there will be reminders every week for that month, and during the last week, specific people who have not responded will get targeted emails. Because we are pulling from the AMY database from the emails, it should come in as a direct email as opposed a mailing list, so hopefully it will not be caught in the filters. 
- Alumni status
    - Proposal: If someone wants to mark themselves as alumni/inactive, Daniel and Erin will message the other maintainers of the lesson instead of blasting the message board. Priviledges will not be removed until that happens. 
    - That RFC will be coming soon, so **comments about how you would want to be notified** if someone steps down/wants to step down in the future. 
- Related to RFC19: how do people think about making this an opt-in process?
    - If you do not respond over the course of a month, you are automatically moved over to alumni. 
    - This can be jarring for some people.
    - Kat: opt-in is better than opt-out because people are not being responsive. 
    - Zhian: it's also a security feature
    - François: If you are an alumnus, would you want to be listed in a separate section of the community page?
    - Kat: I do not have intention to step down, but if I were to, I would want to have a presence on the website. Not even its own page, but maybe at the bottom of the maintainer page. (this got several :+1:)
    - Toby: From the internal perspective, the reason I would be keen to remove the special access for anyone who is stepping down from maintainer responsibility is to avoid mixed messaging. This allows us to be clear about the responsibilities for current maintainers vs those in alumni status (e.g. we don't want to give people the impression that the always have a responsibility, even if they are alumni)
    - Dan: Does anyone have comments on [this critique of the RFC19](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/19#issuecomment-1011765064)?
    - XXXXX: I don't see how using a form for a response is any different than having an email discussion. The maintainers who were recently put into alumni status have long responded "do what you want, I'm not going to be involved." In terms of efficiency, having a form makes sense, but also it's going to force people to stop wavering back and forth. They can _still_ say yes and not do anything if they want to. The biggest concern I may have what if the email is missed? As long as there are multiple times for communication, then we can avoid situations where people were not at their emails (e.g. knee deep in dissertation). I don't agree with the comment that write access should be given for X number of PRs or reviews. I am an advocate for people having extensive training because even though some proposals look good on paper, they do not always work in the workshop. 
    - XXXXX: We will be in our own little echo chambers unless we actually know that we have active maintainers to bounce ideas off of.
    - Henry: When we have onboarding, we expect instructors to add PRs/comments. We should require them to tag/indicate that this is for onboarding so that the maintainers do not feel overwhelmed.
    - Dan: there is a trainers meeting, so I will bring that up. 
    - Liz: It's a really interesting question... how do we manage the knowledge of who is active and available to participate given different timezones, lives, responsibilities. Thinking about how do we even manage these discussions using message boards and zoom makes me think about the scenario where you don't want to break up over text messages or phone calls and here we are dealing with managing relationships over these indirect means. I think it's helpful to have a form. What I haven't seen yet is how big a problem is it to put people off side by removing them from maintainership if they do not respond? I know there are lots of "what ifs" and I'm interested in these in the process. My question here is: have we covered all the bases? Are we worried about offending or not treating our community right? Is that the motivation for this?
    - Dan: the motivation from this is if we just look at the maintainers that were just onboarded, they would come on to the lesson with several other maintainers listed, but Dan and Erin would get messages asking "there are five other people on here, but I'm not getting any response". We brought in people and threw them into a mini-community where they were not getting enough support. The first pitch for the opt-in process had a lot of seasoned maintainers chiming in and saying that this is a good idea and they ahve also run into these patterns. In terms of alienating people, this is the reason why the low-barrier single email to Dan/Erin to opt back is there. The other larger question of have we covered all the bases? I'm not sure, but that's why I was trying to get as much feedback as possible.
    - Drake: to echo Dan's sentiment, I have communicated with a grand total of 1 person of the 5 active maintainers and this solution is a better way than the current practice to get support for lessons that need support. It may not be the best solution, but it's a place to start. 
    - Jamie: I'm new and started last year and experienced these problems. The slack channel helped, but I think this proposal is definitely helpful. 
    - Annanjiat: Sometimes I miss emails and github notifications, so how do we ensure that messages actuall reach people? 
    - Dan: shy of pinging folks on the slack channel and emailing once a week for the following month, I don't know how we can guard against that. The backup solution is that if you do not have write access, then you can email Dan/Erin and they will return the access. 
    - Liz: I think that's a really important point that this is not the solution for everything. It will be an important tool for understanding the health of the communities. You can only go so far to assesssing who feels comfortable being a maintainer. Building community between maintainers is another challenge that's going to be intersting to new and old maintainers alike. 
    - Annajiat: automated messages via slack might be a good way to get the notification around as well. 
2. We will start monthly lesson development coworking calls next week, inspired by the Maintainer Coworking Corrals.
    - Aimed at community members developing lessons (most likely in The Carpentries Incubator). Some overlap with what Maintainers do, but more focus on building a new lesson.

#### 3. Topic of the Month (min)

#### 4. Current Maintainer Request for Comment (RFCs): (min)

- RFC#20: Maintainer Guidelines: Alumni and Active status
    - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/20
- RFC#21: Maintainer Guidelines: Leverage other maintainers for help
    - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/21
- RFC#22: What do you want from the "community lead"?
    - https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/22

#### 5. Topics/Lesson issues to discuss (please add links to the issues you'd like feedback or insight on) (min)

 - Annajiat in some of the lessons, we get automatic hyperlinks to the headings, how do we get that in this lesson? https://librarycarpentry.org/lc-shell/03-working-with-files-and-folders/index.html
     - Zhian: Solution may be to update the styles for that lesson, which seems to be very out of date
     - Things were being fixed piecemeal last year or so with regard to the lesson style.

- New lesson infrastrucure
    - Alpha testing last spring
    - designed to be easier to install (removing a lot of tools from within the lesson). to reduce the problem where lessons which have not updated styles for multiple years.
    - All styles will be updated at once, no separate PR will be needed
    - Sandpaper project and a package called varnish is what is driving the new template
    - docs for new lesson infrastructure https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/example.html
    - If you "edit on github" the format is a bit different, but it matches github's format of editing using "fenced divs"
    - code blocks are formated more like the github style
    - Fenced divs will be used to create "output", "challenge", etc blocks. this fixes a lot of text editor syntax editing and linters
    - What is different within the new template
        - Things are a bit cleaner
        - challenge blocks are displated a bit more smoothly
        - different views (instructor view, learner view -- default)
        - instructor view will show you the instructor notes in-line during the lesson
        - able to export code handouts and slides/outlines during the lesson
        - all the chapters are listed on the sidebar
        - the entire lesson will exist as markdown documents
        - engine is based on the R publishing ecosystem + pandoc
        - tested on a variety of machines, including a windows computer that cannot install docker
        - even if you don't use R, this infrastrue should be easier to instll
        - also easier to use cloud services to maintain lesson
    - look out for blog post with new changes
    - Liz: above presentation answered many questions about "what it looks like", and other general presentation of information
        - displaying instructor notes is a nice touch
        - Is there a concern around people teaching the lesson for checkout? some peopel teach straight off the lessons.
    - Zhian: beta testing will be starting in the spring around March/April
        - There will be a translation step that will be my (Zhian) responsibility to help the maintainers transition
    - Liz: Carpentries advisory committtee is also thinking about formalizing the communication between CAC and maintainers
    - Zhian: We are planning to see a lot of growth with all of the new things happening
    - Annajiat: Will they be writing the lessons in Rmd?
    - Zhian: no. you can edit the lessons in regular markdown, only Rmd specific bits are specific R code chunks. the syntax is specifically pandoc syntax
    - Annajiat: would be good to have the ability have a more customiziability on the page for zooming in and out
    - Zhian: the page does scale (zoom) well. the new style has been tested for accessibility.
        - low vision
        - reduced motion
        - scales well (i.e., responsive) for your phone/tablet (for use while teaching)
    - Annajiat: will there be a button that allows us to copy code in the angle brackets?
    - Zhian: not now, but it is possible (have to make sure it does not violate a11y concerns)
- Zhian: hopefully this all is stable and won't have many hiccups. Alpha testing and CI/CD checks have been going on for a while
- New lesson template also work offline

#### 6. Questions from Co-working session

#### For next meeting
